#  Academic Overview

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

As a Georgia Tech ECE student, you are a vital part of a thriving global
Georgia Tech community. With around 1,400 undergraduate and 1,100 graduate
students, ECE is one of the largest academic units on campus. Our size and
influence mean we offer a variety of opportunities for students to get
involved, explore, and make the most out of their time at Tech. The School’s
close-knit, friendly culture translates to an automatic support system made up
of fellow students, ECE faculty, and staff members.

In the Current Students section you’ll find the ECE-specific services and
support you need in one central place, so that you can focus on being one
helluva engineer!

Undergraduate

Graduate

International

Blank Space (medium)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

The ECE curriculum is enriched by many special programs that allow students to
gain valuable experience, perform research with Georgia Tech faculty, and
broaden their cultural horizons.

Both electrical engineering and computer engineering majors may participate in
the International Program or Cooperative Education Program, two special
academic initiatives at Georgia Tech. Students who successfully complete these
programs receive special degree designations on their diplomas.

The School also offers a more intensive undergraduate research program that
leads to the Research Option in ECE designation on a student's transcript. A
primary goal of the ECE Research Option is to recognize undergraduate students
who have participated in a concentrated research effort that results in an
undergraduate thesis.



Learn About Co-Curricular Opportunities

Learn About Extracurricular Opportunities

Image

## Scholarships & Financial Assistance

Georgia Tech is dedicated to making education accessible to students from all
backgrounds. To ensure that financial constraints do not hinder a student's
ability to learn, the school offers various scholarships and financial
assistance programs. These programs include merit-based scholarships, need-
based financial aid, and tuition assistance for students facing financial
hardships.

The school believes that every student deserves an equal opportunity to pursue
their dreams and achieve their goals, and these financial support programs are
just one way they are working towards that goal. The school's commitment to
providing these resources allows students to focus on their studies without
worrying about the financial burden of education.

## Undergraduate

The Office of Student Financial Planning and Services is responsible for
financial aid and scholarships for undergraduate students.

LEARN MORE

## Graduate

Financial assistance for graduate students consists of Graduate
Assistantships, fellowships, loans, and jobs with the Georgia Tech Research
Institute (GTRI).

LEARN MORE

## ECE Student Engagement & Well-Being

The ECE Office of Student Engagement and Well-Being is a resource for ECE
students. Please reach out to the Director, Dr. Lakshmi Raju, for questions,
guidance, or just to grab some chocolate!

Visit Website for Resources

