#  Co-Curricular

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

### The Hive Makerspace

The Hive is the multidisciplinary student organization that staffs the IDC.
The organization cultivates a culture of student makers and designers who are
passionate about learning new skills, helping other students, and providing
the tools needed to create the next big thing.

Learn More About the Hive

Image



Academic enrichment is a crucial aspect of  ECE's curriculum, and this is
especially true for a school of electrical engineering. As one of the most
rapidly evolving and important fields of study in the modern world, electrical
engineering demands that students are equipped with the skills and knowledge
needed to tackle complex challenges and innovate new technologies. Many
opportunities abound to supplement traditional academics and enhance our
students’ college experience.

## ECE Co-Curricular Opportunities

### STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS

Georgia Tech has more than 300 student groups, including many that are ECE-
specific such as Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
Georgia Tech Chapter; Women in ECE (WECE); and Eta Kappa Nu, the Electrical
and Computer Engineering Honors Society. Learn more about student
organizations.

### VERTICALLY INTEGRATED PROJECTS (VIP) PROGRAM

The Vertically Integrated Projects (VIP) Program unites undergraduate
education and faculty research in a team-based context. Undergraduate VIP
students earn academic credits, while faculty and graduate students benefit
from the design/discovery efforts of their teams. Learn more about the VIP
Program.

### OPPORTUNITY RESEARCH SCHOLARS PROGRAM (ORS)

ORS matches undergraduate electrical and computer engineering students with a
Ph.D. mentor. Each research team meets weekly to work on a structured research
project and attends monthly enrichment workshops addressing a variety of
topics related to academic success. Learn more about the ORS Program.

### ECE RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES

The Research Opportunities website hosts open research positions in ECE
related fields for undergraduate and graduate students. The website also lists
current ECE research labs and research opportunities. Learn more about current
opportunities.

### ECE'S UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES PROGRAM (UROP)

ECE's traditional undergraduate research program has been in place for over 20
years and offers students a chance to work on individual research projects
with ECE faculty. Students who complete both semesters of UROP research can
count the 3 credit hours as ECE elective hours. Learn more about UROP.

### ECE TRANSFER INITIATIVE FOR ENGINEERING SCHOLARS (TIES)

TIES is funded through a competitive review process by the National Science
Foundation’s (NSF) Scholarships in Science, Technology, Engineering, and
Mathematics Program (S-STEM). ECE has been awarded this grant to benefit
students transferring from two- and four-year schools and majoring in
electrical or computer engineering. TIES consists of two components: TIES
Enrichment Program and TIES Scholarships.** **Learn more about TIES

### ENGINEERING FOR SOCIAL INNOVATION (ESI) CENTER

ESI supports a collection of ongoing projects, which are selected from
corporate and non-profit organizations. All projects aim to improve the lives
of the underprivileged domestic population or people at the bottom of pyramid
in the developing world. Undergraduates can work in the Center by designing
something new, improving an existing product, conducting interdisciplinary
research, or becoming a Grand Challenges Scholar. Learn more about ESI.

### CREATE-X

CREATE-X is a collective of programs designed to boost students'
entrepreneurial confidence and give them the tools they need to establish
startups. Learn more about the CREATE-X initiative.

### GRAND CHALLENGES

Established in 2012 as a part of the Leadership Education and Development
Program within the Division of Student Affairs and in partnership with the
College of Engineering, Grand Challenges Living Learning Community promotes
student-driven, cross-disciplinary teams that investigate societally relevant
technological and sociological problems. The program is open to all entering
Georgia Tech students of any major. Learn more about Grand Challenges.

### INVENTURE PRIZE

Nicknamed "American Idol for Nerds," the**  InVenture Prize at Georgia Tech**
is an interdisciplinary innovation competition open to all undergraduate
students and recent graduates of the Georgia Institute of Technology. Learn
more abou the InVenture Prize competition.

## Quick Links

Georgia Tech Student Organizations - Engage

Office of International Education (Study Abroad)

Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program

