# Computer Systems and Software

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

Image

_Computer Systems and Software  creates novel computing environments for edge,
cloud, and high-performance computing. Designs span low-power, reconfigurable
microarchitectures to integrated hardware/software systems to large-scale
distributed software and internetworked devices that communicate, learn, and
intelligently adapt to the environment. Activities focus on optimizing cross-
cutting characteristics, such as power/energy consumption, resiliency, and
security.â€‹_

Modern systems of all types rely heavily on software for their operation.
Thus, it is becoming essential for all engineering students to be familiar
with modern software design and development techniques. In many application
areas, hardware is now a commodity and software provides the "value-added"
proposition. The computer systems and software faculty in the School of ECE is
widely recognized for its expertise and leadership in critical software
systems areas such as networks, embedded systems, and computer and network
security. Further, the optimization of energy and power has emerged as a
driving design constraint in future systems. CSS faculty are engaged in
projects that address several key aspects of energy/power management including
new memory technologies, novel microarchitectures, and system techniques for
use in real-time embedded applications through the data center and scientific
computing at the Exascale.

Industry and government support for the computer systems and software group's
academic and research programs enable students and faculty to remain on the
leading edge of technological advances in this dynamic field. Students emerge
from the program with an integrated base of knowledge in a broad cross section
of computing disciplines, and are highly recruited by the nation's top high
tech corporations. Virtually all computer systems and software PhD students
receive funding support, either through teaching assistantships or research
assistantships.

### Research

The computer systems and software faculty and graduate students are involved
in a broad range of basic and applied research programs, which are supported
by government and industry sponsors. Major government sponsors include the
National Science Foundation, DARPA, and the Department of Energy. Industrial
sponsors include Intel, IBM, HP Labs, NVIDIA, and the Semiconductor Research
Corporation.

Computer Systems and Software research falls within the following major areas:

  * Computer Architecture
  * Embedded Systems
  * Computer Networks and Internetworking
  * Distributed and Dependable Systems
  * FPGAs and Reconfigurable Computing
  * Computer System and Network Security
  * Hardware/Software Co-design
  * Cloud and Edge Computing

### Academics

At the undergraduate level, the computer systems and software faculty are
actively involved in teaching within the Computer Engineering curriculum, and
is reflected in the technical interest group's curriculum. Both at the
undergraduate and graduate levels, students interested in computer systems and
software can pursue coursework spanning a diverse set of topics, ranging from
design of integrated hardware/software systems to computer architecture to
computer networks and distributed systems. Instructional opportunities also
exist for students from other technical areas to gain a basic knowledge of
software systems.



### Computer Systems and Software Faculty Members

David V Anderson

Professor

Manos Antonakakis

Professor

Raheem A Beyah

Professor; Dean Academic

Douglas M Blough

Professor

Viveck Cadambe

Associate Professor

Abhijit Chatterjee

Professor

Thomas R Collins

Professor of the Practice

Tom Conte

Associate Dean-Academic

John A Copeland

Professor Emeritus

Jeffrey Epstein

Senior Lecturer

Bonnie H Ferri

Professor; Vice Provost

Santiago Carlos Grijalva

Professor

Callie Hao

Assistant Professor

Larry P Heck

Professor

Angelos D Keromytis

Professor

Tushar Krishna

Associate Professor

Aaron D Lanterman

Professor

Frank Li

Assistant Professor

Vijay K Madisetti

Professor

(ECE Adjunct)

Fabian Monrose

Professor

Vincent J Mooney

Associate Professor

Henry L III Owen

Professor

William H Robinson

Director-Research

Brendan D Saltaformaggio

Associate Professor

Raghupathy Sivakumar

VP-Research

Alexey Tumanov

Assistant Professor

(ECE Adjunct)

Linda M Wills

Associate Professor

Saman Zonouz

Associate Professor

