#  ECE Student Life

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

### Student Life at ECE

The School of Electrical and Computer Engineering has a deep commitment to
offer essential student support services and co-curricular learning
experiences. Our goal is to empower our diverse student body to gain and apply
lifelong skills. Life at ECE provides students with an enriching journey
through initiatives that foster learning, nurtures leadership, promote
wellness and success, and facilitates student engagement.

Explore Student Life Below

Image

Image

## Student Resources

ECE provides as a comprehensive support system for students, offering academic
assistance, financial aid opportunities, wellness services, career development
resources, and access to cutting-edge technical tools, all designed to ensure
their success and well-rounded development.

Explore Resources

### ECE Student Engagement & Wellness

Supporting both undergraduate and graduate students in their goals, ECE’s
Office for Student Engagement and Well-Being promotes habits of academic
excellence, essential life skills, and mental health.

Learn More About SEWB

Image

####  ECE Student Organizations

In addition to the 300+ student organizations across Georgia Tech’s campus,
there are several student organizations created specifically for Electrical
and Computer Engineering students to connect and grow!

Explore ECE Student Organizations

## Check out Our Student Orgs!

## Explore Our Academic Programs

ECE’s undergraduate and graduate programs are ranked Top 5 in the nation, and
the School is one of the largest producers of electrical engineers and
computer engineers in the country. The rigorous and innovative programs
offered allow for a thoroughly enriching educational journey within a
supportive community that places a high value on student support.  


Undergraduate Programs

Graduate Programs

## Student News Highlights

Stay connected with the latest from ECE students across campus and around the
world.

####  Simpler Approach to Prevent Cervical Cancer Makes Collegiate Inventors
Competition Finals

A group of Georgia Tech students is looking to prevent cervical cancer and
other gynecological diseases with a new approach to testing that could
increase access to healthcare and turn a wasted resource into a valuable tool.

Read More

####  Opportunity Research Scholars’ Students Sweep SRC's TECHCON

Georgia Tech Electrical and Computer Engineering ORS students triumph at
TECHCON 2023 winning all three top undergraduate awards at the Semiconductor
Research Corporation's conference.

Read More

####  More Upcoming Events

ECE brings the community together for enriching experiences and student-
centric events. Learn more about what’s coming up next.

View Upcoming Events

## Contact Us

Need more information about student life at ECE? Contact Dr. Lakshmi Raju,
Director of Office of Student Support and Well-being in ECE.

**Contact Dr. Raju**

Friday, 23 February 2024 10:42 AM EST

