#  ECE3006

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. ECE Courses

## Co-Curricular Professional Communications for ECE

This course is no longer offered

(0-0-0-0)

**CMPE Degree:** This course is Elective for the CMPE degree.

**EE Degree:** This course is Elective for the EE degree.

**Lab Hours:** 0 supervised lab hours and 0 unsupervised lab hours.

**Technical Interest Group(s) / Course Type(s):** BSCmpE core (2012-13
curriculum), BSEE core (2012-13 curriculum)

**Course Coordinator:**

**Prerequisites:** ECE 2031 [ min C]

**Corequisites:** None.

### Catalog Description

This course documents student completion of ECE professional communications
requirement through workshops, seminars, research projects, co/extra-
curricular activities, etc.

### Textbook(s)

### Course Outcomes

  1. Recognize the basic conventions of technical writing and the discipline-specific features of engineering documents.
  2. Identify structure, organization, and content of common engineering documents: proposals, technical reports, instruction guides, comparison papers
  3. Work individually and in teams to write documents with audience-appropriate content and proper formatting, spelling, punctuation, grammar, and usage.
  4. Integrate text and visuals to clearly convey complex technical information.
  5. Revise documents for content, organization, and writing style.
  6. Work individually and in teams to develop and deliver effective oral presentations with significant technical content using presentation software.
  7. Provide feedback to peers on their writing, speaking, and teamwork abilities.

### Student Outcomes

In the parentheses for each Student Outcome:  
"P" for primary indicates the outcome is a major focus of the entire course.  
“M” for moderate indicates the outcome is the focus of at least one component
of the course, but not majority of course material.  
“LN” for “little to none” indicates that the course does not contribute
significantly to this outcome.

1\. ( LN ) An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering
problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics

2\. ( LN ) An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that
meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare,
as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors

3\. ( P ) An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences

4\. ( M ) An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in
engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the
impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and
societal contexts

5\. ( LN ) An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together
provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment,
establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives

6\. ( LN ) An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation,
analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions

7\. ( M ) An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using
appropriate learning strategies.

### Strategic Performance Indicators (SPIs)

Not Applicable

### Course Objectives

### Topical Outline

ECE 3006 is a marker course that documents student satisfaction of the EE/CmpE
junior-level professional communication requirement through co-curricular
activities, such as workshops or undergraduate research. Once students have
completed the necessary activities, they will be issued a permit to register
for ECE3006 in the following semester. Students must successfully complete a
minimum number of three (3) Communications Units (CUs) in the following areas:
1 writing assignment (~ 5-7 pages) 1 presentation (PowerPoint, poster ~10
minute talk) 1 elective communication activity (presentation and writing tasks
with shorter deliverables)

