#  ECE3043

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. ECE Courses

## Measurements, Circuits and Microelectronics Laboratory

(1-0-3-2)

**CMPE Degree:** This course is Elective for the CMPE degree.

**EE Degree:** This course is Required for the EE degree.

**Lab Hours:** 3 supervised lab hours and 0 unsupervised lab hours.

**Technical Interest Group(s) / Course Type(s):** BSEE core (2012-13
curriculum), Electronic Design and Applications, Nanotechnology

**Course Coordinator:** Robert Allen Jr Robinson

**Prerequisites:** ECE 3040* [min C] and ECE 2031/20X2 [min C]

**Corequisites:** None.

### Catalog Description

Theory and experiments related to the design, analysis, construction, and
measurement of elementary passive and active analog circuits using both
discrete and integrated devices.

### Textbook(s)

Experiments in Electrical and Analog Electronic Circuits

### Course Outcomes

  1. Evaluate the performance of basic electrical and analog electronic circuits by using test and measurement instrumentation including dc power supplies, function generators, oscilloscopes, digital multimeters, and RCL meters.
  2. Design basic electrical and analog electronic circuits such as amplifiers, filters, rectifiers, and oscillators to meet given specifications.
  3. Validate designs and problem solutions by using mathematical and circuit simulation software.
  4. Analyze and construct basic circuits and relate expected behavior to experimental measurements.

### Student Outcomes

In the parentheses for each Student Outcome:  
"P" for primary indicates the outcome is a major focus of the entire course.  
“M” for moderate indicates the outcome is the focus of at least one component
of the course, but not majority of course material.  
“LN” for “little to none” indicates that the course does not contribute
significantly to this outcome.

1\. ( P ) An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering
problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics

2\. ( LN ) An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that
meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare,
as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors

3\. ( M ) An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences

4\. ( LN ) An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities
in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the
impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and
societal contexts

5\. ( LN ) An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together
provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment,
establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives

6\. ( P ) An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation,
analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions

7\. ( M ) An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using
appropriate learning strategies.

### Strategic Performance Indicators (SPIs)

Not Applicable

### Course Objectives

### Topical Outline

1\. Instrumentation: Oscilloscope, Function generator, DC power supply,
Digital multimeter, SPICE for passive circuits

2\. First-order RC and RL circuits: Transient response (step function and
square wave excitation), Frequency response, Bode plots with SPICE, Mathcad,
and Matlab

3\. Second-order RLC circuits: Resonance, Step-function response, Damping
factor, Bode plots with SPICE, Mathcad, and Matlab

4\. IC op-amp amplifiers: Noninverting, Inverting, T feedback, Integrator,
Differentiator, SPICE for IC amplifiers, Non ideal properties of op-amps
(finite gain-bandwidth product)

5\. IC op-amp differential and instrumentation amplifiers: Differential gain,
Common-mode gain

6\. First-order IC op-amp active filters: Low-pass, High-pass, All-pass,
Shelving

7\. Second-order IC op-amp active filters: Low-pass, High-pass, All-pass,
Notch, Bandpass

8\. IC op amp oscillators: Wien Bridge, Phase shift oscillator, 555 timer,
Schmidt trigger

9\. Diodes: Terminal characteristics, Applications for passive and active
circuits, SPICE analysis of circuits with diodes

10\. Common-emitter amplifier: Biasing, Small-signal behavior, Large-signal
behavior, SPICE analysis of CE

11\. Common-source MOSFET amplifier: Biasing, Small-signal behavior, Large-
signal behavior, SPICE analysis of CS, CMOS INVERTER

12\. Discrete BJT differential amplifier: Biasing, Differential gain, Common-
mode gain

