#  ECE4043

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. ECE Courses

## Senior Analog Electronics Laboratory

(1-0-3-2)

**CMPE Degree:** This course is Elective for the CMPE degree.

**EE Degree:** This course is Selected Elective for the EE degree.

**Lab Hours:** 3 supervised lab hours and 0 unsupervised lab hours.

**Technical Interest Group(s) / Course Type(s):** Electronic Design and
Applications

**Course Coordinator:** Robert Allen Jr Robinson

**Prerequisites:** ECE 3040 [min C] and ECE 3043 [min C]

**Corequisites:** None.

### Catalog Description

Theory and experiments related to the design, analysis, construction, and
measurement of advanced analog electronic circuits using discrete devices
(diodes, bipolar junction transistors, MOSFETs).

### Textbook(s)

Experiments in Analog Electronic Circuits

### Course Outcomes

  1. Evaluate the performance of advanced analog electronic circuits by using test and measurement instrumentation including dc power supplies, function generators, oscilloscopes, digital multimeters, and RCL meters.
  2. Design analog electronic circuits such as amplifiers, filters, rectifiers, and oscillators to meet given specifications.
  3. Validate designs and problem solutions by using mathematical and circuit simulation software.
  4. Analyze and construct advanced circuits and relate expected behavior to experimental measurements.

### Student Outcomes

In the parentheses for each Student Outcome:  
"P" for primary indicates the outcome is a major focus of the entire course.  
“M” for moderate indicates the outcome is the focus of at least one component
of the course, but not majority of course material.  
“LN” for “little to none” indicates that the course does not contribute
significantly to this outcome.

1\. ( P ) An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering
problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics

2\. ( LN ) An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that
meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare,
as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors

3\. ( LN ) An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences

4\. ( LN ) An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities
in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the
impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and
societal contexts

5\. ( LN ) An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together
provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment,
establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives

6\. ( P ) An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation,
analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions

7\. ( P ) An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using
appropriate learning strategies.

### Strategic Performance Indicators (SPIs)

Not Applicable

### Course Objectives

### Topical Outline

Topical Outline

1\. Terminal Characteristics of the BJT: Collecting curve tracer data,
determining parameters from data, developing model from data

2\. BJT Amplifier configurations: CE, CB, CC, Cascode, Cascade, Non-Ideal
Behavior

3\. JFET Applications: CS Amplifier, Chopper Modulator, Voltage Controlled
Attenuator

4\. BJT Differential Amplifier: Biasing, Differential Gain, Common Mode Gain

5\. MOSFET amplifier configurations: CS, Differential Amplifier

6\. Discrete Feedback Amplifiers: Series-Shunt, Shunt-Series, Shunt-Shunt,
Series-Series

7\. Current Sources: JFET, BJT, MOSFET, Current Mirrors

8\. Switched Capacitor Filters: Low Pass, High Pass, Bandpass, Notch

9\. Discrete Voltage Regulator: Open Loop, Feedback Error Correction, Foldback
Current Limiting

10\. Discrete Op-Amp: Differential Input Stage, Gain Stage, Push Pull Output,
Non-Ideal Behavior

11\. Discrete Oscillators: Colpitts, Clapp, Emitter-Coupled

12\. Design Project: A task involving circuits previously encountered

