#  ECE4445

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. ECE Courses

## Audio Engineering

(3-0-0-3)

**CMPE Degree:** This course is Elective for the CMPE degree.

**EE Degree:** This course is Selected Elective for the EE degree.

**Lab Hours:** 0 supervised lab hours and 0 unsupervised lab hours.

**Technical Interest Group(s) / Course Type(s):** Electronic Design and
Applications

**Course Coordinator:** Robert Allen Jr Robinson

**Prerequisites:** ECE 3040 [min C]

**Corequisites:** None.

### Catalog Description

Concepts of acoustics and electroacoustic modeling for the analysis and design
of microphones, loudspeakers, and crossover networks. Methods of analysis and
design of audio power amplifiers.

### Textbook(s)

Introduction to Electroacoustics and Audio Power Amplifier Design

### Course Outcomes

  1. Create and use electromechanical and electroacoustic models to solve for variables in mechanical and acoustic systems.
  2. Relate model parameters to system behavior. 
  3. Characterize and model moving coil loudspeakers.
  4. Design infinite baffle, closed box, and vented box loudspeaker systems.

### Student Outcomes

In the parentheses for each Student Outcome:  
"P" for primary indicates the outcome is a major focus of the entire course.  
“M” for moderate indicates the outcome is the focus of at least one component
of the course, but not majority of course material.  
“LN” for “little to none” indicates that the course does not contribute
significantly to this outcome.

1\. ( P ) An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering
problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics

2\. ( LN ) An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that
meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare,
as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors

3\. ( LN ) An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences

4\. ( LN ) An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities
in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the
impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and
societal contexts

5\. ( LN ) An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together
provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment,
establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives

6\. ( P ) An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation,
analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions

7\. ( P ) An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using
appropriate learning strategies.

### Strategic Performance Indicators (SPIs)

Not Applicable

### Course Objectives

### Topical Outline

Basic Principles: Introductory concepts and definitions

Fundamentals of Acoustics: An introduction to the fundamentals of acoustics.
Pressure, particle velocity, volume velocity, intensity, diffraction,
reflection. Plane wave and spherical solutions to the wave equation.

Electro Acoustical Analogous Circuits: Development of analogous circuits for
acoustic sources and elements. Plane wave tubes, acoustic resistance, acoustic
mass, and acoustic compliance. Analogous circuits for radiation impedances.

Electro Mechanical Analogous Circuits: Development of analogous circuits for
mechanical sources and elements. Mobility and impedance analogs. Transducer
analogous circuits.

Microphones: Microphone classifications, analogous circuits, pressure
microphones, pressure gradient microphones, combination microphones, SPICE
simulations of microphones, promximity effect.

Moving Coil Loudspeaker Drivers: Direct radiator loudspeaker driver
construction and modeling. Analogous circuit, pressure response, radiated
power, small-signal parameters. SPICE simulations.

Loudspeaker Driver Parameter Measurements: Methods for the measurement of
small-signal loudspeaker parameters.

Closed Box Loudspeaker Systems: The analysis and design of closed-box direct-
radiator loudspeaker systems. SPICE simulations.

Vented Box Loudspeaker Systems: The analaysis and design of vented-box direct-
radiator loudspeaker systems. Applications of network synthesis to vented-box
design. SPICE simulations.

Crossover Networks: Analysis and design of passive and active loudspeaker
crossover networks. Effects of loudspeaker phase response on crossover network
design. SPICE simulations.

Acoustic Horns: Solutions to the Webster horn equation. Exponential, conical,
parabolic, and hyperbolic horns. Analogous circuits for horns and horn driving
units. Frequency response.

Audio Power Amplifiers: Concepts of feedback amplifier design. Stability,
frequency compensation, circuit topologies, gain-bandwidth and slew-rate
relationship, power supply decoupling and grounding, protection circuits.

