# Electronic Design and Applications

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

Image

_Electronic Design and Applications focuses on device and integrated circuit
fabrication, circuit and system design and simulation, and instrumentation and
testing techniques.â€‹_

Electronic design and applications is a vital area of electrical engineering,
encompassing the experimentation, design, modeling, simulation and analysis of
single devices or circuits as well as complete signal processing systems. The
unique combination of ECE's educational program, and the leading edge
fabrication and testing facilities provides a full cycle exposure, from
concept to product realization.

ECE offers its graduate students on-going opportunities to work as Graduate
Research Assistants, or Graduate Teaching Assistants. Virtually all Ph.D.
students receive funding support through research or teaching.

### Research

Electronic Design and Applications (EDA) faculty and students are engaged in a
range of basic and applied research projects supported by governmental and
industry sponsors like Analog Devices, AT&T, Hewlett-Packard, Texas
Instruments, Lockheed-Martin, Boeing, Linear Technology, Keithley Instruments,
Cypress Semiconductor, the National Science Foundation, the National Security
Agency, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency, and the U.S. Army Research Office.

Research laboratories at Georgia Tech managed by EDA faculty are equipped to
study, design, simulate, build, and test devices, integrated circuits, boards,
and systems across a broad range of frequencies.

Electronic Design and Applications research falls within the following major
areas:

  * MEMS Devices and Circuits
  * Analog Electronics and VLSI
  * Radio-Frequency (Wireless) Integrated Circuits (RFIC)
  * mmWave and THz Circuits for Remote Sensing and Communications
  * High-speed Mixed-signal Systems
  * Biomedical and Wearable Electronics
  * Sensing Microsystems and Energy Harvesting
  * Power-management Integrated Circuits

### Academics

The depth and breadth of faculty expertise in all areas of electronic design
and applications is reflected in the curriculum, which provides students a
strong foundation in analog circuits and systems with an emphasis on
integrated-circuit technology. View the sequence and pre-requisites for EDA
courses.



###  Electronic Design and Applications Faculty Members

Azadeh Ansari

Associate Professor

Farrokh Ayazi

Regents Entrepreneur

Timothy J Brothers

Professor of the Practice

John D Cressler

Regents Professor

Jane Gu

Professor

Jennifer Olson Hasler

Regents Entrepreneur

William D Hunt

Professor

Omer T Inan

Regents Entrepreneur

James Stevenson Kenney

Professor Emeritus

Aaron D Lanterman

Professor

Shaolan Li

Assistant Professor

Saibal Mukhopadhyay

Professor

Gabriel A Rincon-Mora

Professor

Shimeng Yu

Professor

