# Electrical Energy

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

Image

_Electrical Energy is primarily concerned with meeting the demand for electric
energy in a safe, reliable, secure, cost-effective, and environmentally
friendly manner._

ECE offers one of the country's leading undergraduate and graduate academic
programs in electrical energy engineering encompassing power systems, power
electronics and controls, power apparatus, and photovoltaics. Our programs
remain on the leading edge of the ever-evolving technological advances in this
dynamic field.

ECE also offers its graduate students on-going opportunities to work as
Graduate Research Assistants or Graduate Teaching Assistants. Virtually all
Electrical Energy Ph.D. students receive funding support through teaching or
research as well as through their participation in one of the Electrical
Energy's research centers.

### Research

The Electrical Energy research program is supported by a variety of funding
sources including the National Science Foundation, the Electric Power Research
Institute (EPRI), Georgia Power Company, Duke Power Company, the National
Electric Manufacturers Association (NEMA), the U.S. Department of Energy, the
U.S. Department of Defense, and the Steel Tube Institute of North America, and
a variety of industry sponsors.

In addition, the Electrical Energy Group is affiliated with two major research
centers that offer students opportunities to engage in funded research that
enriches their academic experience with direct experience in the electrical
energy industry.

  * National Electric Energy Testing, Research and Applications Center
  * University Center of Excellence for Photovoltaic Research and Education

Electric Energy Systems are primarily concerned with meeting the demand for
electric energy in a safe, reliable, secure, cost effective, and
environmentally friendly manner. Electrical Energy research falls within the
following major areas:

  * Power System Protection, Control, Optimization, and Automation
  * Renewable Generation, Wind, Photovoltaics (PV), and Other
  * Power Electronics
  * Power System Simulation and Visualization
  * High Voltage Engineering
  * Energy System Cybersecurity
  * Motors, Generators, and Power Conversion
  * Silicon-based Microchips and Microsystems

### Academics

The depth and breadth of faculty expertise in this area is reflected in the
curriculum which provides students with a solid foundation in power systems,
energy systems, and power electronics. The graduate program is complemented by
courses in Systems and Controls, Electromagnetics, Digital Signal Processing,
and/or Telecommunications.

### Continuing Education Program

Electrical Energy faculty, in cooperation with industry experts, offer a
variety of continuing education courses to practicing engineers on topics of
current interest, including the Electrical Engineering Refresher Course for
the PE Exam, Power System Protective Relaying, Modern Energy Management
Systems, and Power Electronic Devices.

### Certificate Program

The Electrical Energy Group also offers a Power System Certificate Program
that includes a series of comprehensive short courses covering all major
aspects of power system modeling, design, control and operation. All courses
are taught by leading experts in the field.



### Electrical Energy Faculty Members



Deepakraj M Divan

Professor

Baoyun Ge

Assistant Professor

Lukas Graber

Associate Professor

Santiago Carlos Grijalva

Professor

A P Meliopoulos

Professor

Daniel Molzahn

Assistant Professor

Gabriel A Rincon-Mora

Professor

Ajeet Rohatgi

Regents Professor

Maryam Saeedifard

Professor

George Vachtsevanos

Professor Emeritus

