#  George Vachtsevanos

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. ECE Faculty/Staff Directory

Intelligent Control Systems Laboratory

Official Job Title

Professor Emeritus

Emeritus Length of Service

1984-2007

Email Address

gjv@ece.gatech.edu

Office Building

VL

Office Room Number

E392

Technical Interest Group(s)

Electrical Energy

Biography

Dr. Vachtsevanos directs the Intelligent Control Systems Laboratory at Georgia
Tech where faculty and students are conducting interdisciplinary research in
intelligent control, fault diagnosis and failure prognosis of complex
dynamical systems with emphasis on rotorcraft, and hierarchical/intelligent
control of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. His work in Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
dates back to 1994 with major projects funded by the U.S. Army and DARPA. He
has served as the Co-PI for DARPA's Software Enabled Control program over the
past six years and directed the development and flight testing of novel fault-
tolerant control algorithms for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. He is currently
representing Georgia Tech at DARPA's HURT program where multiple UAVs are
performing surveillance, reconnaissance, and tracking missions in an urban
environment. Under Army Research Office sponsorship, his research team is
developing game theoretic notions for adversarial reasoning.

His research in fault diagnosis and prognosis for Condition Based Maintenance
began in 1984 with innovative fault detection and control technologies for the
space station program. Under Office of Naval Research (ONR) sponsorship, he
developed fault detection and fault-tolerant control systems for a turbojet
engine. Jointly with Honeywell, he designed diagnostic and prognostic
algorithms for shipboard machinery under ONR sponsorship. More recently, he
has been an active participant in DARPA's Prognosis Program, the Aging
Aircraft Program, an Advanced Diagnostics Program for U.S. Army vehicles, a
U.S. Navy program on Prognostic Enhancements to Diagnostic Systems, an Air
Force Space Command Program for CBM Design of Ground Satellite Stations, and
other industrial programs. He administers at Georgia Tech and on-site an
intensive 4-day short course on "Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis for Engineering
Systems." He has published over 250 technical papers and is the recipient of
the 2002-2003 Georgia Tech School of ECE Distinguished Professor Award and the
2003-2004 Georgia Institute of Technology Outstanding Interdisciplinary
Activities Award. He is the lead author of the book, _Intelligent Fault
Diagnosis and Prognosis for Engineering Systems_ , published by Wiley in 2006.

Research

  * Hierarchical/Intelligent control of large-scale industrial processes
  * Fault-tolerant and mode transitioning control of unmanned aerial vehicles
  * Vision and IR based inspection technologies for textile, glass and other industrial products
  * Analysis of EEG signals for detection and prediction of epileptic seizures
  * Sensor fusion techniques for classification and control

Distinctions & Awards

  * Awarded six U.S. patents in the areas of biomedical instrumentation, robotics and inspection of industrial products
  * Dissertation Fellowship and Scholarship awards for undergraduate and graduate study
  * Civic Congress of Staten Island Achievement Award
  * 1998 Publication Award of the International Test and Evaluation Association
  * Chairman, Society of Manufacturing Engineers Association for Electronics Manufacturing Board of Advisors, 1997-1998
  * Associate Editor, International Journal of Intelligent and Robotic Systems
  * Member, National Energy Council of Greece, 1979-1981

Wednesday, 07 August 2024 2:22 PM EDT

