#  Mark G Allen

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. ECE Faculty/Staff Directory

Georgia Tech MEMS

Official Job Title

Adjunct Professor

Email Address

mallen@gatech.edu

Telephone

404/894-9419

Office Building

MiRC

Office Room Number

120

Biography

Mark G. Allen received three bachelor degrees from the University of
Pennsylvania in 1983: the B.A. in Chemistry, the B.S.E. in Chemical
Engineering, and the B.S.E. in Electrical Engineering. He then attended the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he received the S.M. degree in
Chemical Engineering and the Ph.D. degree in the field of microelectronics in
1986 and 1989, respectively. After completing a postdoctoral appointment at
MIT, Dr. Allen joined Georgia Tech as an assistant professor in 1989.

His main research focus is in microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), which
uses microfabrication techniques to create mechanical structures in silicon
and other materials that can be added to electronic devices. A key participant
in the Microelectronics Research Center and the Microsystems Packaging
Research Center, Dr. Allen also serves as a co-director for the Center for
MEMS and Microsystems Technologies. He leads the Microsensor and Microactuator
Group at Georgia Tech, where he has advised 17 postdoctoral fellows and has
graduated 27 Ph.D. students. During his career, he has published almost 90
refereed journal papers and 165 refereed conference papers.

To date, Dr. Allen and his research group have been issued 36 patents, two of
which have led to the development of two companies—Redeon and CardioMEMS—that
are graduates of the Advanced Technology Development Center. In 1999, Dr.
Allen and his colleague Mark Prausnitz of the School of Chemical and
Biomolecular Engineering co-founded Redeon, a microneedle company that
commercialized microfabrication-based approaches to transdermal delivery of
drugs such as insulin. The company was sold to Biovalve, Inc., in 2001. Dr.
Allen co-founded his second company, CardioMEMS, with Jay Yadav, MD, of the
Cleveland Clinic in 2001, to create endovascularly-implantable wireless MEMS
sensors for monitoring physiological conditions within the body. The first
devices developed were pressure sensors for monitoring the intrasac pressure
in abdominal aortic aneurysms that have been repaired using stent-grafts.
CardioMEMS' wireless pressure monitor was recently highlighted by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration in its annual report as a medical device likely
to have a significant impact on patient care.

In August 2007, Dr. Allen was named as the senior vice provost for research
and innovation at Georgia Tech. He is responsible for setting the Institute's
research and economic development agenda and strategic direction, including
the commercialization of intellectual property developed in its research labs.

Research

  * Micromachining
  * Microsensor and microactuator fabrication compatible with the IC fabrication
  * Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS)

Distinctions & Awards

  * International Conference on Solid State Sensors and Actuators Steering Committee, 2007-2015
  * Board Member, Transducers Research Foundation, 2004-2010
  * 2007 American Electronics Association Spirit of Endeavor Award
  * 2006 Company of the Year Award from Small Times Magazine for CardioMEMS
  * 2006 Frost and Sullivan Patient Monitoring Product Innovation of the Year Award for CardioMEMS
  * 2005 Georgia Tech Outstanding Leadership for the Development of Graduate Research Assistants Award
  * Senior Member, IEEE

Friday, 19 May 2023 3:06 PM EDT

