# Nanotechnology

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

Image

_Nanotechnology is concerned with the emerging of enabling nano-scale
materials and devices, including the design, analysis, and realization of
enabling systems.â€‹_

The invention of the transistor and the integrated circuit marked the genesis
of microelectronics and set the stage for the unprecedented technological
advances of the 20th century, which impacted virtually every aspect of modern
life. Indeed, it is said that no invention in the history of humanity has so
quickly spread throughout the world, or so profoundly pervaded so many aspects
of human existence as the microprocessor. The field of nanotechnology has
enabled such life-altering breakthroughs as implantable cardiac pacemakers,
personal computers, wireless cellular telephones, optoelectronic-fiber
networks, communication satellites and the Internet.

ECE offers its graduate students many opportunities to work as Graduate
Research Assistants or Graduate Teaching Assistants. Virtually all Ph.D.
students receive funding support through teaching or research

#### Research

ECE's Nanotechnology group is internationally recognized for their leadership
in research and education in this dynamic field. This group is affiliated with
three world class research centers, which play a defining role in
Nanotechnology. Each of these centers is led by a senior ECE faculty member.

  * University Center for Excellence in Photovoltaic Research and Education
  * 3D Systems Packaging Research Center
  * Center for MEMS and Microsystems Technologies (CMMT)

Principal funding for these centers comes from the U.S. Department of Energy,
the National Science Foundation, the Georgia Research Alliance, and the State
of Georgia. Other sponsors supporting the research of these and other projects
include ITT, Boeing Aerospace Company, Texas Instruments, Semiconductor
Research Corporation, the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. Department of Defense, and
the National Aeronautic and Space Administration.

Nanotechnology research falls within the following major areas:

  * Nano Devices and Systems
  * Photovoltaics and Electro-optical Systems
  * Integrated Sensor Systems
  * Biomedical Applications
  * Next Generation Electronic Packaging and Integration
  * Compound Semiconductor Devices and Systems

#### Academics

The depth and breadth of faculty expertise in all areas of nanotechnology is
reflected in the educational program. The curriculum consists of a series of
core courses in devices and technology, supplemented by multiple opportunities
for in-depth study of specific topics. The core courses are Introduction to
Microelectronics Technology, Introduction to the Theory of Microelectronics,
and Theory of Microelectronic Devices. This is supplemented by a series
elective courses spanning all areas of this dynamic and growing field.



### Nanotechnology Faculty Members

Ali Adibi

Professor

Azadeh Ansari

Associate Professor

Farrokh Ayazi

Regents Entrepreneur

Muhannad S Bakir

Professor

David S Citrin

Professor

John D Cressler

Regents Professor

Suman Datta

Professor

Jeffrey A Davis

Associate Professor

F Levent Degertekin

Professor

William Alan Doolittle

Professor

Russell Dean Dupuis

Professor Emeritus

Albert B Frazier

Professor

Thomas K Gaylord

Regents Professor

William D Hunt

Professor

David C Keezer

Professor Emeritus

Asif Islam Khan

Associate Professor

Bernard J Kippelen

Professor; Vice Provost for International Initiatives

Benjamin D.B. Klein

Adjunct Associate Professor

James D Meindl

Professor Emeritus

Linda S Milor

Professor

Saibal Mukhopadhyay

Professor

Azad J Naeemi

Professor

Abdallah Ougazzaden

Professor

Stephen E Ralph

Professor

Ajeet Rohatgi

Regents Professor

A. Fatih Sarioglu

Associate Professor

Shyh-Chiang Shen

Professor

Madhavan Swaminathan

Professor Emeritus

Rao R Tummala

Professor Emeritus

Doug Yoder

Associate Professor

Shimeng Yu

Professor

