#  Partner Programs

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

Image

At Georgia Tech ECE, we are at the core of every technology—the people,
practices, and programs designed to be powerfully agile and effective in
solving problems and unlocking potential. From power generation to
microsystems to new fields in bioengineering and nanotechnology, **ECE is
consistently at the cutting edge of the latest frontiers of electrical and
computer engineering applications**.

You can see our impact in almost every technology and industry—computing,
medicine, energy, and communications. You name it, and we're there.

We recognize that _you,  _as an industry colleague, understand and are a part
of this incredible world of innovation, too. **We encourage you to get
involved at ECE in any way that you see fit** , whether it’s attending a
professional education course or giving a presentation to share your valuable
knowledge with a student group.

**Let’s collaborate.**

**Why Work Together**

ECE’s industry partner programs have been established to:

  * Maintain research focus on industry partner needs
  * Efficiently transfer research results to corporate partners
  * Promote strong relationships with ECE faculty and students
  * Provide industry partners with an avenue to support students, faculty, and academic programs
  * Identify the best student recruiting programs to meet your hiring needs
  * Offer opportunities for student co-op and internship experiences

**How You Can Get Involved**  
ECE's corporate friends can become involved in several different ways:

**Take a professional education course**: Practicing electrical engineers and
computer engineers can refresh their technical knowledge and skills by taking
courses through Georgia Tech's Professional Education Office.

**Become a member of ECE  Access**: Corporate membership is offered starting
at the $10,000 annual level and provides flexible and tailored access to ECE
students, faculty, publications, seminars, workshops, and regularly scheduled
conferences.

**Participate in ECE’s research centers**: Benefit from ECE’s cutting-edge
research by becoming a member of one of ECE’s affiliated centers and
consortia.

**Support a professor, student laboratory, or facility**: Champion a faculty
member by supporting a chair, professorship, or junior faculty award.
Establish an undergraduate scholarship or graduate fellowship. Provide state-
of-the-art learning environments by contributing to an ECE facility or
laboratory.

**Take part in student life**: Present to student groups or participate in a
huge variety of student activities within ECE and at Georgia Tech.

Let us know what you would like to achieve through your partnership with ECE.
We’re confident we’ve got what you need.

**Contact  ****Jeff Colburn****  for more details.**

