#  Student Organizations

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Student Engagement and Well-Being

Image

_WECE (Women in Electrical and Computer Engineering) leadership photo._

## Student Organizations

In addition to 300+ Institute-wide student organizations, a number of ECE-
specific organizations exist within the School. Involvement in student
organizations is a great way to meet people, engage in outreach activities,
and build your resume.

Image

WECE (Women in Electrical and Computer Engineering) seeks to support and
encourage the success of female ECE students and to inspire and motivate young
women to go into the engineering field.

Instagram  
  
Email

Image

The Hive is a community of student volunteers who dedicate their time to staff
the IDC facility. They are responsible for upkeep of the building, machinery,
training, safety, and the general well-being of their community.

Website  
  
Email

Image

Eta Kappa Nu (HKN) is the international honor society of the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and hosts a wide variety of
social, corporate, and service events for the benefit of our members and our
community.

Website  
  
Email  
  


Image

GT IEEE membership, available to students of all majors, provides a wide
variety of opportunities. Corporate workshops, networking, info sessions,
engineering competitions and regional events, leadership positions, and social
activities.

Website  
  
Email

Image

The Georgia Tech Amateur Radio Club, W4AQL, operates a VHF repeater and a
shack containing an assortment of HF, VHF, and UHF gear, and is open to
students, faculty, and staff.

Website

Image

ECE Ambassadors give tours to prospective students and host events to bridge
the gap between faculty and students.

Email

Image

The ECE Graduate Student Organization is the community of graduate students
(Masters and PhD) in ECE. We serve as the liaison between students and staff &
faculty, design a plethora of professional development programs for our
members and organize social events that foster a sense of community among our
students.  
**Instagram**  
**Email**

Image

Black, Latino, and Indigenous in Electrical and Computer Engineering (BLIECE)
coordinates professional and academic programs targeted towards students in
ECE who identify as African American, Latino, or Indigenous to ensure that
these students have the resources and support they need to excel at Georgia
Tech and beyond.

Instagram  
Email

Image

SiliconJackets is a student run organization focused on exposing students to
the many roles involved in bringing a System on Chip (SoC) from idea to
tapeout through a series of collaborative engineering projects.

Website  
LinkedIn  
Email

Image

The ECE Student Advisory Board is comprised of ECE students and organization
leaders dedicated to bridging the gap between students, organizations, and ECE
faculty.

Email

## Hear More About Our Student Organizations

