#  Student Engagement and Well-Being

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

### ECE's Student Engagement and Well-Being

ECE's Student Engagement and Well-Being programs are tailored to empower
students on their path to academic, personal, and professional success.
Supporting both undergraduate and graduate students in their goals, these
services promote habits of academic excellence, essential life skills, and
mental health. They also serve as a platform to enhance student-faculty
engagement and strengthen partnerships across the Institute to amplify
existing resources.

Explore SEWB Below

Image

### ECE Student Engagement and Well-Being

ECE's Student Engagement and Well-Being programs are tailored to empower
students on their path to academic, personal, and professional success.
Supporting both undergraduate and graduate students in their goals, these
services promote habits of academic excellence, essential life skills, and
mental health. They also serve as a platform to enhance student-faculty
engagement and strengthen partnerships across the Institute to amplify
existing resources.

## Upcoming Events

Explore our upcoming student wellness and engagement events, designed to
support your overall well-being and nurture connections within the ECE
community.  


# **CHECK BACK SOON FOR FALL EVENTS SCHEDULE  **

## Programs and Initiatives

The Office of Student Engagement and Well-Being offers a diverse range of
programs and initiatives aimed at enhancing the academic experience and
overall well-being of students.

These programs and initiatives collectively aim to create a well-rounded and
supportive environment for students, enabling them to excel academically,
access resources for their well-being, and connect with opportunities that
enhance their educational and professional development.

  * **Semester Wellness Series  **
  * **ECE Conference and Career Development Fund  **
  * **ECE Peer Advising  **

  * **ECE Research Opportunity Website  **
  * **Cohort building initiatives like Transfer Student, Dual-Degree Student, GEM Fellow luncheons  **
  * **Student Resources**

## Research Opportunities

Explore exciting research opportunities at ECE including Opportunity Research
Scholars (ORS), ECE's structured undergraduate research program and other
institute-wide options. Discover research for credit or pay, and for those
seeking academic challenges, discuss enrolling in a Special Problems course
with your advisor. Additionally, discover available travel support for
conferences and career development for both undergraduate and graduate
students in ECE and across the institute.

Explore Research Opportunities

Image

## Meet the Director

### Dr. Lakshmi Raju

Lakshmi Raju brings her Georgia Tech student experience to the role as the
Director of Student Engagement and Well-Being. She received her B.S. in
Electrical Engineering in 2017, and stayed for the graduate program, earning
an M.S. in 2019 and a Ph.D. in 2022.

As a student she created programs that she continues to run, such as the ECE
Peer Advising program. As a product of the School of ECE, she intends to use
her experiences and the opportunity to continue to foster the collaborative
and welcoming environment that students have created.  

Dr. Raju has several goals she hopes to accomplish during her time as program
director including:

  * **Establish programs and initiatives that enable student growth and well-being.   **
  * **Build community through events and working with ECE organizations.  **
  * **Institute infrastructure to offer students support.**
  * **Strengthen engagement between faculty and students  **
  * **Expand access to professional, career, and academic planning and development  **
  * **Extend partnerships across the Institute to amplify existing resources  **

Students should reach out to Dr. Lakshmi Raju for guidance in navigating the
ECE experience, accessing wellness and support services, or seeking
information on programs and initiatives aimed at enhancing their student
journey.

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

Image

Contact Dr. Raju

Monday, 06 May 2024 1:41 PM EDT

