# VLSI Systems and Digital Design

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

Image

_The VLSI systems and digital design technical interest group carries out
activities involved with designing and testing complex digital and mixed-
signal electronic systems. These techniques optimize power, performance, and
reliability metrics across a wide range of applications.  _

The interests of faculty in this area span all levels of abstraction: embedded
software and hardware/software co-design; design synthesis; physical design;
algorithms for accurate electrical simulation of chips and packages; design of
3-D systems and design of reliable digital, mixed-signal, and RF electronics;
and system/package co-design.

Key applications include surveillance, robotics, multimedia, and cloud
computing that are optimized for power and reliability across the algorithm-
architecture-circuit levels.

#### Research

The VLSI systems and digital design faculty and graduate students are involved
in a broad range of basic and applied research programs, which are supported
by government and industry sponsors. Major government sponsors include the
National Science Foundation, Sandia National Laboratories, and the U.S.
Department of Defense. Industrial sponsors include CACI, IBM, National
Semiconductor, NVIDIA, Samsung, and Semiconductor Research Corporation.

VLSI Systems and Digital Design research falls within the following major
areas:

  * Design of Ultra-low Power Circuits and Systems
  * Embedded Systems and Hardware-software Codesign
  * Microarchitecture and Memory Design for Performance, Power, and Reliability
  * Design and Test of Systems on Chips (SoCs) and Systems in Packages (SiPS)
  * Low Power/High Speed Interconnect and Design Automation for Physical Design
  * VLSI Testing and Fault Tolerant Computing
  * Data Acquisition Systems for Vision/Sensing Applications
  * Self-tuning/Self-calibrating Circuits for Wired and Wireless Communications
  * Design of Nanotechnology and Other Emerging Computational Fabrics

#### Academics

At the undergraduate level, the VLSI systems and digital design faculty are
actively involved in teaching within the Computer Engineering curriculum, and
is reflected in the technical interest group's curriculum. Both at the
undergraduate and graduate levels, students interested in VLSI systems and
digital design can pursue coursework spanning a diverse set of topics, ranging
from embedded systems, fault tolerant computing, mechanisms for computing
systems, and data acquisition.



### VLSI Systems and Digital Design Faculty Members



Nivedita Bhattacharya

Lecturer

Timothy J Brothers

Professor of the Practice

Abhijit Chatterjee

Professor

Tom Conte

Associate Dean-Academic

Suman Datta

Professor

Jeffrey A Davis

Associate Professor

Callie Hao

Assistant Professor

David C Keezer

Professor Emeritus

Asif Islam Khan

Associate Professor

Shaolan Li

Assistant Professor

Sung-Kyu Lim

Professor

Vincent J Mooney

Associate Professor

Saibal Mukhopadhyay

Professor

Arijit Raychowdhury

Professor; Steve W. Chaddick School Chair

William H Robinson

Director-Research

Visvesh S Sathe

Associate Professor

Linda M Wills

Associate Professor

Shimeng Yu

Professor

