#  Welcome from the Chair

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

### Welcome from the Chair

Image



Welcome to the website of the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at
the Georgia Institute of Technology. The School's overarching vision is to
lead in the creation and development of intellectual and human capital in
electrical and computer engineering and their applications, in order to foster
the technological, economic, and social enrichment of the State of Georgia,
the nation, and the world.

In today’s rapidly evolving innovation landscape, we find ourselves at the
forefront of a number of societal-level challenges that can only be met
through multidisciplinary collaboration. Our combination of size, diversity,
and quality makes us uniquely positioned to address these challenges in a
transformative and impactful way.

Our goals in support of this vision are to:

  * be one of the very best programs of electrical and computer engineering education, research, and its transfer to the community at large;
  * encourage excellence and diversity in thought and endeavor, while providing a nurturing environment for continued professional advancement of our staff and faculty;
  * provide degree and continuing education programs that produce graduates who are well-prepared to enter and assume leadership roles in the profession;
  * enhance student experiences through entrepreneurship programs and undergraduate research opportunities, with design permeating our curriculum; and  
  * mobilize our research and intellectual resources to address problems facing the industry and the world, while advancing the boundaries of disciplinary and multidisciplinary research and its applications.

It is in this context that ECE works to advance Georgia Tech's strategic
mission to define the technological research university of the 21st century.
As you navigate through this site, I hope you will see how our world-class
faculty and staff, talented and dedicated students, and educational and
research programs enable us to come together to achieve these goals.

Thank you for visiting our site.

**Arijit Raychowdhury**  
  
Steve W. Chaddick School Chair and Professor

## ECE Vision, Mission, Objectives, and Outcomes

Image

### Vision and Mission

The vision of the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering of the Georgia
Institute of Technology is to lead in the creation and development of
intellectual and human capital in electrical and computer engineering and
their applications in order to foster the technological, economic, and social
enrichment of the State of Georgia, the nation, and the world. The mission of
the School is to:

  * be one of the very best programs of electrical and computer engineering education, research, and its transfer to the community at large;
  * be recognized as a place that encourages excellence and diversity in thought and endeavor;
  * provide degree and professional education programs that produce graduates who are well prepared to enter and assume leadership roles in the profession; and
  * provide research and intellectual resources that address problems facing the industry and the world, while advancing the boundaries of disciplinary and multidisciplinary research and its applications.

### PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES – B.S.E.E. AND B.S.CMP.E.

**Within five years after graduating, the Georgia Institute of Technology
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering graduates will have the skills,
knowledge, and choices to:**

  * be successful and recognized **leaders**  in professional practice in electrical and computer engineering or in related fields;
  * be adaptive-learners and lifelong **innovators**  through advanced education/degrees, strategic professional development, and entrepreneurship that focuses on the needs of stakeholders;
  * be **problem solvers**  who consider global, societal, and environmental impact and are prepared to address problems that are beyond conventional technical understanding and knowledge. Graduates will demonstrate technical competence, ethical reasoning, and creativity in identifying, formulating, analyzing, and developing solutions using appropriate techniques, skills, and tools;
  * be **team builders** , who lead and participate in culturally diverse teams and promote breadth of perspectives in developing, communicating, and executing solutions.

### STUDENT OUTCOMES – B.S.E.E. AND B.S.CMP.E.

Graduates are expected to be able to demonstrate:

  1. an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics
  2. an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors
  3. an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
  4. an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts
  5. an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives
  6. an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
  7. an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

### STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES – M.S.E.C.E.

The learning outcomes for M.S.E.C.E. students are periodically reviewed by the
ECE Graduate Committee, revised as appropriate and voted upon by the full
faculty.

  1. Students will demonstrate expertise in a subfield of study chosen from the fields of electrical engineering or computer engineering;
  2. Students will demonstrate the ability to identify and formulate advanced problems and apply knowledge of mathematics and science to solve those problems;
  3. Students will demonstrate the ability to utilize current knowledge, technology, or techniques within their chosen subfield.

### STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES – PH.D.

The learning outcomes for Ph.D. students are periodically reviewed by the ECE
Graduate Committee, revised as appropriate and voted upon by the full faculty.

  1. Students will perform original research that has a potential of impact in the corresponding field.
  2. Students will demonstrate technical competence in a chosen area of study.
  3. Students will have the ability to communicate technical material effectively through written documents and oral presentations.

