#  About ECE

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

Image

ECE is located in the epicenter of Atlanta, a thriving, vibrant community. As
**one of the fastest-growing markets for high-tech development**  in the
world, Atlanta provides a plugged-in backdrop and a multitude of networking
and top-tier job opportunities. Almost every industry, including aerospace,
biomedical, energy, robotics, manufacturing, automotive, and computer,
recruits ECE graduates.

## Who We Are

The School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at the Georgia
Institute of Technology is one of the largest producers of electrical
engineers and computer engineers in the world. From every day to the hard to
imagine, ECE is at the core of almost all technology. Our diverse graduates
are among the most highly sought after by industry and by top graduate
schools, medical schools, and law schools. From computer chips and satellites
to medical devices and renewable energy technologies, electrical and computer
engineering makes our modern life possible.

## What We Offer

Georgia Tech ECE is one of the top-ranked schools in the nation with **the
largest program of its kind in the United States.**  Our diverse and talented
student body come from all over the world. They come to experience ECE’s
first-class education and research programs, which offer a multitude of
customizable options: flexible pathways with 11 technical interest areas,
300-plus student organizations, more than 80 study abroad programs, and 19
Georgia Tech research centers, to name a few.

## School Profile and National Rankings

Image

Image

The School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at the Georgia
Institute of Technology is one of the largest producers of electrical
engineers and computer engineers in the United States. More than 2,500
students are enrolled in the School’s graduate and undergraduate programs, and
in the last academic year, 746 degrees were awarded.

All four of ECE’s undergraduate and graduate programs are in the top five
according to _U.S. News & World Report_ rankings. In terms of rankings among
public universities, all GT ECE programs rank either No. 1 or No. 2.

Approximately 100 ECE faculty members are involved in 11 areas of research and
education – bioengineering, computer systems and software, digital signal
processing, electrical energy, electromagnetics, electronic design and
applications, nanotechnology, optics and photonics, systems and controls,
telecommunications, and VLSI systems and digital design – and the School is
either home to or a key player in almost 20 research centers and consortia. In
FY 2022-23, ECE faculty members acquired a record $81 million in research
grants and contracts from government and industrial sources and via
philanthropic gifts.

ECE is key to Georgia Tech's growing reputation as an internationally
recognized educational and research and development university. ECE is firmly
committed to sustaining excellence in traditional areas of strength and
venturing into burgeoning areas of opportunity.

## ECE at Georgia Tech Campuses

As one of the largest units within the College of Engineering and one of the
largest individual schools at Georgia Tech, the School of ECE is vital not
only to Georgia Tech’s reputation as one of the nation's top universities, but
also as the Institute expands its domestic and global connections in research,
education, and economic development.

Currently, ECE has faculty and students at three Georgia Tech campuses around
the world, in addition to its home base at Georgia Tech in Atlanta. This
section briefly describes each location and provides ECE faculty contacts and
links for campus websites.

  * Georgia Tech Main Campus – Atlanta, Georgia
  * Georgia Tech-Europe – located in Metz, France 

With a presence in these strategic areas, ECE continues its quest to lead in
developing new and relevant technologies; fostering a collaborative and
collegial environment for faculty and staff; and most importantly, graduating
students with the technical and professional skills and flexibility to adapt
to the increasingly global, high-tech marketplace.

Explore ECE Buildings at Georgia Tech Main Campus

Image

## Explore the History of Georgia Tech ECE

Spanning from the Institute’s inception in 1896 through the turn of the 21st
century, this compendium chronicles the evolution of one of the nation’s
largest and leading ECE departments. Explore the pivotal roles of various
department heads and discover how their leadership and vision have shaped the
School’s legacy. The historical journey not only highlights the milestones and
achievements but also ties the School's growth to the broader narrative of
Georgia Tech’s rise as a premier technological institution. Additionally, it
features in-depth interviews and profiles of some of Georgia Tech ECE’s most
prominent figures, offering unique insights into their contributions and
experiences.

Read the Compendium

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

Image

## 2023-2024 ECE Annual Report

In this year's report, learn more about ECE's achievements, innovations, and
the strides made in shaping the future of electrical and computer engineering
education and research.

Explore the Report

