# BSEE core (2012-13 curriculum)

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

## BSEE core (2012-13 curriculum)

## ECE2026

### Introduction to Signal Processing

Introduction to discrete-time signal processing and linear systems. Sampling
theorem. Filtering. Frequency response. Discrete Fourier Transform. Z
Transform. Laboratory emphasizes computer-based signal processing.

## ECE2031

### Digital Design Laboratory

Design and implementation of digital systems, including a team design project.
CAD tools, project design methodologies, logic synthesis, and assembly
language programming.  
  
  

## ECE2035

### Programming for Hardware/Software Systems

Creation of complex execution and storage mechanisms, based on instruction set
architecture, for software design including high-level programming languages
and operating systems. Programming design projects.

## ECE2040

### Circuit Analysis

Basic concepts of DC and AC circuit theory and analysis.

## ECE3005

### Professional and Technical Communications for ECE

Written, oral, and visual communication skills required by electrical and
computer engineers. Prepares students for advanced communication tasks
required in academic and professional settings.

## ECE3006

### Co-Curricular Professional Communications for ECE

This course documents student completion of ECE professional communications
requirement through workshops, seminars, research projects, co/extra-
curricular activities, etc.

## ECE3025

### Electromagnetics

To present the laws and applications of electromagnetics.

## ECE3040

### Microelectronic Circuits

Basic concepts of microelectronic materials, devices and circuits.

## ECE3043

### Measurements, Circuits and Microelectronics Laboratory

Theory and experiments related to the design, analysis, construction, and
measurement of elementary passive and active analog circuits using both
discrete and integrated devices.

## ECE3072

### Electrical Energy Systems

Non-renewable and renewable/sustainable energy sources. Processes, costs, and
environmental impact of conversion into electric energy. Delivery and control
of electric energy, electromechanical systems.

## ECE2020

### Fundamentals of Digital System Design

Computer system and digital design principles. Switch and gate design, Boolean
algebra, number systems, arithmetic, storage elements. Datapath, memory
organization. Instruction set architecture, assembly language.

## ECE2036

### Engineering Software Design

Object-oriented software methods for engineering applications. Numerical
analysis methods; simulations and graphical presentation of simulation
results; analysis of numerical precision. Programming projects.

## ECE3077

### Introduction to Probability and Statistics for ECE

Introduction to probability, random variables, distributions, estimation,
confidence intervals, linear regression and other tools for describing and
managing uncertainty in electrical and computer engineering.

## ECE3084

### Signals and Systems

Continuous-time linear systems and signals, their mathematical
representations, and computational tools; Fourier and Laplace transforms,
convolutions, input-output responses, stability.

## ECE4011

### ECE Culminating Design Project I

First semester of ECE culminating design sequence. Design tools, financial
principles, project management, probabilistic and statistical techniques, team
forming. Requires formal reports and group presentations.

## ECE4012

### ECE Culminating Design Project II

Second semester of ECE culminating design sequence. Team project in ECE
incorporating engineering standards and realistic constraints. Requires formal
reports and group presentations.

## ECE4007

### ECE Culminating Design Project

Team-oriented culminating design project in electrical/computer engineering,
incorporating engineering standards and realistic constraints. Requires formal
reports and group presentations.

