# Cybersecurity

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

## Cybersecurity

### Raheem Beyah Faculty Profile

Dec 05, 2018 --

A conversation with the new executive director of the Online Master of Science
in Cybersecurity

November

11

2024

### ECE Student Seminar | Perspectives on Cybersecurity from a US Government Cybersecurity Engineer

12:30 PM

### Trio of Georgia Tech-Affiliated Research Projects Recognized at Top
Cybersecurity Conference

Oct 24, 2024 --

Eight Georgia Tech researchers were honored with the ACM Distinguished Paper
Award for their contributions to cybersecurity at the ACM Conference on
Computer and Communications Security (CCS).

### Critical Infrastructure Systems Are Vulnerable to a New Kind of
Cyberattack

Feb 29, 2024 --

Engineers and computer scientists show how bad actors can exploit browser-
based control systems in industrial facilities with easy-to-deploy, difficult-
to-detect malware.

###  Sync Up with Cybersecurity: Fall '17

Aug 23, 2017 --

Interested in cybersecurity at Georgia Tech? Gain traction in this fast-
growing field during Fall '17

### Students Present Cybersecurity Research for Commercialization on April 13

Mar 14, 2017 --

Georgia Tech students will present their best cybersecurity research before a
panel of venture capitalists and business leaders for a chance to win cash at
the “Demo Day Finale” on April 13.

### Network Traffic Provides Early Indication of Malware Infection

May 22, 2017 --

Analyzing network traffic going to suspicious domains could give security
administrators earlier warning of malware infections.

### Three Georgia Tech Students Chosen as 'Scholars' for RSA® Conference

Feb 09, 2017 --

Three Georgia Tech students head to the RSA® Conference as 'Security Scholars'
to broaden their research.

### Simulated Ransomware Attack Shows Vulnerability of Industrial Controls

Feb 13, 2017 --

Cybersecurity researchers have developed a new form of ransomware that was
able to take over control of a simulated water treatment plant.

### Applications Open for Georgia Tech Cybersecurity Ph.D. Fellowships

May 15, 2017 --

Ph.D. students conducting research on any cybersecurity research area such as
policy, consumer-facing privacy, risk, trust, attribution, or cyber-physical
systems are encouraged to apply for the IISP Cybersecurity Fellowship Program.

###  Grant Supports Hardware Security Research to Combat Malware

Sep 24, 2017 --

Researchers will begin a $100,000 project for Cisco to detect runtime errors
using hardware-assisted signature generation.

### “Combosquatting” Attack Hides in Plain Sight to Trick Computer Users

Oct 30, 2017 --

Attackers are tricking computer users with URLs that are similar to those of
real companies.

### Tackling Cybersecurity: White Hats, Black Hats, and Grey Matter

Sep 25, 2017 --

In the realm of cybersecurity, white hats are good-guy defenders and black
hats are the adversary. Yet it takes a combination of both to really put grey
matter to work and solve the most vexing challenge of our time: protecting
connected data.

### Students Can Win Up to $125,000 for Cybersecurity Research or
Commercialization

Sep 13, 2017 --

Up to $125,000 in cash and prizes awaits students with cyber ideas for
research or commercialization.

### Tracer FIRE Exercise hosted at Georgia Tech to Improve Talent Pipeline

Nov 02, 2018 --

Tracer FIRE for the U.S. Department of Energy is a program developed by Sandia
and Los Alamos National Laboratories to educate and train cyber security
incident responders and analysts in critical skill areas.

### Tracer FIRE Exercise Hosted at Georgia Tech to Improve Talent Pipeline

Nov 06, 2018 --

On Sept. 6-7, 2018, Sandia National Laboratories and Georgia Tech ECE
Assistant Professor Brendan Saltaformaggio hosted an exercise to provide
students a look into how forensic incident response teams operate.

### Liao Named Runner-Up for ACM SIGSAC Doctoral Dissertation Award

Sep 20, 2018 --

Georgia Tech ECE alumna Xiaojing Liao has been named as a runner-up for the
2018 ACM SIGSAC Doctoral Dissertation Award.

### ECE Welcomes Three New Faculty Members

Aug 27, 2018 --

The School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) is pleased to welcome
three new faculty members – Angelos Keromytis, Negar Kiyavash, and Shimeng Yu
– to Georgia Tech.

### Georgia Tech Creates Cybersecurity Master’s Degree Online for Less Than
$10,000

Aug 08, 2018 --

New online master's in cybersecurity will cost less than $10,000.

### Kintis Selected as a DARPA Riser

Jun 06, 2018 --

Panagiotis (Panos) Kintis has been selected to participate as a DARPA Riser in
D60, DARPA’s 60th anniversary symposium.

### Farahmand Receives IEEE UEMCON Best Paper Award

Mar 01, 2018 --

ECE research faculty member Fariborz Farahmand received the Best Paper Award
in the Big Data, Image Processing, and Multimedia Technology Track at the 2017
IEEE 8th Annual Ubiquitous Computing, Electronics, and Mobile Communications
Conference.

### Wolf Co-Edits Special Issue of the Proceedings of the IEEE

Jan 04, 2018 --

ECE Professor Marilyn C. Wolf is the co-editor of the current special issue of
the Proceedings of the IEEE, which is focused on safe and secure cyber-
physical systems.

### Robot Designed to Defend Factories Against Cyberthreats

Mar 29, 2018 --

This robot is designed to lure in digital troublemakers who have set their
sights on industrial facilities. HoneyBot will then trick the bad actors into
giving up valuable information to cybersecurity professionals.

### New Technologies are Helping Connect and Protect the Internet of Things

Apr 18, 2018 --

Researchers are creating a connected new world through the internet of things.

### Accenture Security to Invest $500,000 in Georgia Tech's OMS Cybersecurity
Program

Dec 18, 2018 --

Accenture announced as first corporate donor for OMS Cybersecurity and invests
$500,000 to help close cybersecurity knowledge gap.

### Control System Simulator Helps Operators Learn to Fight Hackers

Aug 23, 2018 --

A control system simulator for a chemical processing plant could help train
operators on security measures.

### Researchers Help Close Security Hole in Popular Encryption Software

Aug 09, 2018 --

Cybersecurity researchers have helped close a side channel security
vulnerability in popular encryption software.

###  Two Ph.D. Students Named IISP Cybersecurity Fellows

Jan 29, 2018 --

Celine Irvene and Jenna McGrath were named IISP Cybersecurity Fellows for
Spring '18\.

### Georgia Tech Presents Cybersecurity Discoveries at NDSS '18

Feb 19, 2018 --

Five, new cybersecurity discoveries by researchers at Georgia Tech and its
partners are unveiled at a premier international event.

### Study Finds “Lurking Malice” in Cloud Hosting Services

Oct 19, 2016 --

A study of 20 major cloud hosting services has found that as many as 10
percent of the repositories hosted by them had been compromised.

### Georgia Tech Launches New Research on the Security of Machine-Learning
Systems

Oct 31, 2016 --

A $1.5 million gift from Intel establishes a new research center dedicated to
machine-learning cybersecurity -- the analytics behind malware detection and
threat analysis.

### $17 Million Contract Will Help Establish Science of Cyber Attribution

Nov 29, 2016 --

Georgia Tech has been awarded $17.3 million to help establish new science of
attribution.

### Georgia Tech Becomes First University to Join M3AAWG

Nov 17, 2015 --

Looking to share its advanced research on bot behavior, emerging infections
and mitigation, Georgia Tech is the first academic institution to join the
cybersecurity trade association's anti-abuse working group.

### Statement re: White House Cybersecurity National Action Plan

Feb 10, 2016 --

Associate Director Michael Farrell provides a public statement on behalf of
the Institute for Information Security & Privacy.

### Students to Show Venture Capitalists Their Best Cybersecurity Work

Mar 29, 2016 --

Information security students will compete before a national panel of venture
capitalists for cash in the inaugural “Demo Day Finale” on April 13.

### SEISE Tool Uses Semantic Gaps to Detect Website Promotional Attacks

May 19, 2016 --

Researchers have developed a new technique for identifying promotional
infections of websites operated by government and educational organizations.

### Creating the Next: Cybersecurity Ideas Can Win VC Cash

Sep 14, 2016 --

The Institute for Information Security & Privacy invites students of any
major, any year to bring cybersecurity research ideas to Fall ’16 Demo Day.

### Georgia Tech Launches Two Programs to Boost Cybersecurity Degree
Production and Research

Nov 16, 2016 --

The Institute for Information Security & Privacy at Georgia Tech announced a
$5-million scholarship fund and the creation of a new Ph.D. fellowship program
dedicated to emerging cybersecurity ideas.

### William H. Robinson Named GTRI Deputy Director of Research for ICSD

Apr 12, 2022 --

The search for the new GTRI Deputy Director for Research for the Information
and Cyber Sciences Directorate (ICSD) is complete, and on April 18, William H.
Robinson, Ph.D., will assume the role.

### Looking Ahead 2022 and beyond

Jan 21, 2022 --

Five trends that will reshape our lives in 2022

#### Pagination

  * Current page  1 
  * Page  2 
  * Next page
  * Last page Last 

