#  ECE on Campus

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

As one of the largest units within the College of Engineering and one of the
largest individual schools at Georgia Tech, the School of ECE is vital not
only to Georgia Tech’s reputation as one of the nation's top universities, but
also as the Institute expands its domestic and global connections in research,
education, and economic development.

Currently, ECE has faculty and students at our main Georgia Tech Atlanta
campus and several other off-campus instructional sites around the world. This
section briefly describes each location and provides ECE faculty contacts and
links for campus websites.

  * Georgia Tech Main Campus – Atlanta, Georgia
  * Georgia Tech-Europe – located in Metz, France 

With a presence in these strategic areas, ECE continues its quest to lead in
developing new and relevant technologies; fostering a collaborative and
collegial environment for faculty and staff; and most importantly, graduating
students with the technical and professional skills and flexibility to adapt
to the increasingly global, high-tech marketplace.

## Georgia Tech Locations

### Atlanta - Main Campus

Georgia Tech is one of the nation's top research universities, distinguished
by its commitment to improving the human condition through advanced science
and technology.

The campus occupies 400 acres in the heart of the city of Atlanta, where over
25,000 undergraduate and graduate students pursue a focused, technologically
based education. Accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools (SACS), the Institute offers many nationally recognized, top-ranked
programs. Undergraduate and graduate degrees are offered in the Colleges of
Architecture, Engineering, Sciences, Computing, the Scheller College of
Business, and the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts.

The School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) is the largest of
eight schools in the College of Engineering and one of the largest schools at
Georgia Tech. In addition to its' main campus in Atlanta, the scope of ECE
extends into Europe via Georgia Tech Lorraine

Over 110 faculty members are employed with ECE. On the Atlanta campus, ECE
faculty, staff, and students are housed in 10 different buildings on the
Georgia Tech campus and also at the National Electric Energy Testing Research
and Applications Center in Forest Park, Ga.

Image

### Europe

Established as Georgia Institute of Technology’s first international off-
campus instructional site in 1990 in Metz, France, Georgia Tech-Europe is:

  * A highly innovative institution offering year-round undergraduate, master’s and Ph.D. programs
  * Home to a strong sponsored research program through the _GT-CNRS Unité Mixte Internationale 2958_  (UMI), an international joint laboratory between Georgia Tech and the _French Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS)_
  * Operator of the Lafayette Institute, an international open-innovation center
  * Fully integrated into French and American structures: an affiliate of the Georgia Institute of Technology and incorporated under French law

For more information, please contact Andrea Gappell, Marketing and Recruiting,
Georgia Tech-Europe, at 404-385-1865, or visit the Georgia Tech-Europe
website.

Image



