#  ECE Student Seminar | Building a Fulfilling Career in Semiconductors 

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

November

25

2024

9:30 AM

Location

Van Leer Building, C240

#### Keywords

ECE Student Seminar

career building

Monday, November 25, 2024 09:30AM

**Title:** Building a Fulfilling Career in Semiconductors  
**Speaker:** Roland Sperlich, Texas Instruments VP and General Manager  
**Date:** Monday, November 25, 2024  
**Time:** 9:30 a.m.-10:00 a.m.  
**Location:** Van Leer Building, C240

**Abstract:** Roland will share his experiences and advice for building a
fulfilling career starting with landing his first real job through the
graduate coop program at Georgia Tech, working as an applications engineer,
systems engineering lead, leading several worldwide teams, running over
$1B/year business and being elected a Vice President at Texas Instruments.
Roland will highlight the different opportunities for engineers in the
semiconductor industry, as well as some of his lessons learned with the desire
that some of these will benefit students who are embarking on the next step of
their career.

**Bio:** Roland Sperlich is vice president and business unit manager of the
Processors business unit at Texas Instruments. He joined TI in 2005. In his
current role, he leads a team that covers High-Performance Microcontroller and
Microprocessor products. These products address a growing TAM of over $10B
while solving some of the most difficult challenges in making cost effective
AI solutions for the automotive ADAS marketplace, high-performance signal
processing solutions for audio and radar applications, and comprehensive
networking solutions for industrial, and automotive applications.

Roland has been part of the Processors business since May of 2023, prior to
this role, Roland had been the general manager for TI’s Interface Business
Unit. He joined the Interface team in 2010 when he became product line manager
for High Speed Interface. In this role, he led the team to develop a
differentiated analog portfolio of signal conditioners including the
industry’s highest performance passive switches, the first USB2.0 redriver and
TI’s first DP/HDMI retimer portfolio. The team also qualified and made inroads
with a large portfolio of USB interface products for automotive infotainment
systems.

In 2015, Roland assumed responsibility for the Transceiver product line where
he was responsible for all TI transceiver products, including those supporting
RS-485/232, I2C, CAN/LIN and System Basis Chips (SBC). Under his leadership,
the product line grew by 30% and was able to enter the competitive CAN/LIN and
SBC marketplace.

Roland received his bachelor’s degree in electrical and computer engineering
from Merrimack College, his master’s and doctoral degrees in electrical
engineering from Georgia Institute of Technology, and an MBA from Southern
Methodist University. He

holds several patents and has published articles on the application of
equalization and linearization techniques in the field of communications and
high-speed interface.

In his free time, Roland enjoys playing ice-hockey, watersports and playing
violin with his daughter and son.

