#  ECE Student Seminar | From ECE to the Business of ECE: Transitioning to Business and Consulting 

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

December

2

2024

12:30 PM

Location

Van Leer Building, C240

#### Keywords

ECE Student Seminar

career building

Monday, December 02, 2024 12:30PM

**Title:** From ECE to the Business of ECE: Transitioning to Business and
Consulting  
**Speaker:** Dan Hays, PwC Principal and Head of Tech, Media, and Telecom
Strategy Consulting  
**Date:** Monday, December 2, 2024  
**Time:** 12:30 p.m.-1:20 p.m.  
**Location:** Van Leer Building, C240

**Abstract:** Dan will share his professional journey since enrolling at
Georgia Tech in 1990, including how his co-op and internship experiences
shaped his thinking, how he decided whether to return to grad school, and how
his journey led him to a multi-decade career in strategy consulting. He will
share lessons learned from his work with technology and telecommunications
companies around the world, as well as tips for career success in consulting
and beyond.

**Bio:** Dan Hays is a principal with PwC, focused on strategy and operations
across the technology, media, and telecommunications sector. As a senior
member of PwC’s Strategy& consulting practice, Dan works with communications
and information service providers, network equipment and device manufacturers,
distributors, software companies, and investors worldwide.

Dan has worked with clients across the Americas, Europe, Asia, the Middle
East, and Oceania, and focuses in the areas of growth strategy, regulatory
policy, spectrum management, innovation, product development, and operational
strategy.

A prolific author and speaker, as well as often-quoted industry expert, Dan’s
writing includes leading thinking on the communications industry, growth
strategies, and mobile networks. Dan is a frequent guest columnist and often-
quoted industry expert in publications such as The Wall Street Journal, CNN,
Forbes, and The New York Times.

Prior to joining PwC via the acquisition of PRTM Management Consultants, Dan
worked for Intel and IBM in marketing and product development, where his
responsibilities included supporting the development of the world’s first
smart phone, driving the adoption of new connectivity standards such as USB,
Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth, and developing new product concepts for advanced
technology products.

Dan holds an Electrical Engineering degree with high honors from the Georgia
Institute of Technology and an MBA from Harvard Business School.

