#  ECE Courses

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

## Special Topic Courses

Select from buttons below to view information on special topic courses.

Undergraduate Special Topic Showcase

Graduate Special Topic Showcase

## Projected Course Schedules

Undergraduate

Graduate

## Undergraduate Resources

Approved Ethics Courses

Undergraduate Common Course Websites

Senior Design & Capstone Design Expo

Degrees and Curriculum Threads

Undergrad ECE Permit Requests

## ECE Syllabus Repository

1XXX-8XXX

## Permanent Course Descriptions and Outlines

Course Interest Area \- Any -BioengineeringComputer Systems and
SoftwareDigital Signal ProcessingElectrical EnergyElectromagneticsElectronic
Design and ApplicationsNanotechnologyOptics and PhotonicsSystems and
ControlsTelecommunicationsVLSI Systems and Digital Design

Other Course Types \- Any -BSCmpE core (2012-13 curriculum)BSEE core (2012-13
curriculum)Courses for non-ECE majorsCross-listed coursesDeactivated / No
longer offeredEE Breadth electives (2011-12 curriculum)Graduate courses not in
a domainSeminars / Special coursesUndergraduate courses not in a
domainUndergraduate research

Course Number

Include deactivated courses \- Any -TrueFalse

## ECE1010

### Introduction to ECE Design

An introduction to basic concepts useful for all areas of Electrical and
Computer Engineering. Focus on hands-on, team-based activities using robotics.

## ECE18XX

### Special Topics

Used for courses under development or courses being offered only one time.  
Last digit indicates number of credit hours.

## ECE2001

### ECE Seminar

Speakers with diverse backgrounds and representing many different  
industries, professions, and institutions describe their experiences,  
entrepreneurial ventures, and research challenges.

## ECE2002

### ECE Seminar

Speakers with diverse backgrounds and representing many different  
industries, professions, and institutions describe their experiences,  
entrepreneurial ventures, and research challenges.

## ECE2003

### ECE Seminar

Speakers with diverse backgrounds and representing many different  
industries, professions, and institutions describe their experiences,  
entrepreneurial ventures, and research challenges.

## ECE2020

### Fundamentals of Digital System Design

Computer system and digital design principles. Switch and gate design, Boolean
algebra, number systems, arithmetic, storage elements. Datapath, memory
organization. Instruction set architecture, assembly language.

## ECE2026

### Introduction to Signal Processing

Introduction to discrete-time signal processing and linear systems. Sampling
theorem. Filtering. Frequency response. Discrete Fourier Transform. Z
Transform. Laboratory emphasizes computer-based signal processing.

## ECE2031

### Digital Design Laboratory

Design and implementation of digital systems, including a team design project.
CAD tools, project design methodologies, logic synthesis, and assembly
language programming.  
  
  

## ECE2035

### Programming for Hardware/Software Systems

Creation of complex execution and storage mechanisms, based on instruction set
architecture, for software design including high-level programming languages
and operating systems. Programming design projects.

## ECE2036

### Engineering Software Design

Object-oriented software methods for engineering applications. Numerical
analysis methods; simulations and graphical presentation of simulation
results; analysis of numerical precision. Programming projects.

## ECE2040

### Circuit Analysis

Basic concepts of DC and AC circuit theory and analysis.

## ECE2045

### Practical Skills and Design

This course teaches practical skills, such as soldering and prototyping, and
introduces students to ECE design.

## ECE2698

### Research Assistantship

Independent research conducted under the guidance of a faculty member.

## ECE2699

### Undergraduate Research

Independent research conducted under the guidance of a faculty member.

## ECE2883

### ECE 2283 HPC

The second offering of an Honors Program course that provides a creative
experience for Honors students and also provides a direct course substitution
for ECE2031.

## ECE2891

### Practical Skills and Design

This course teaches practical skills, such as soldering and laying out printed
circuit boards, for students to be able to design and build their own
applications.

## ECE28XX

### Special Topics

Used for courses under development or courses being offered only one time.  
Last digit indicates number of credit hours.

## ECE3005

### Professional and Technical Communications for ECE

Written, oral, and visual communication skills required by electrical and
computer engineers. Prepares students for advanced communication tasks
required in academic and professional settings.

## ECE3025

### Electromagnetics

To present the laws and applications of electromagnetics.

## ECE3030

### Physical Foundations of Computer Engineering

Basic principles governing the physical realization of computing systems and
their relationship to characteristics such as performance, energy, and
robustness. Implementation technologies.

## ECE3040

### Microelectronic Circuits

Basic concepts of microelectronic materials, devices and circuits.

## ECE3043

### Measurements, Circuits and Microelectronics Laboratory

Theory and experiments related to the design, analysis, construction, and
measurement of elementary passive and active analog circuits using both
discrete and integrated devices.

## ECE3058

### Architecture, Systems, Concurrency and Energy in Computation

Basic organizational principles of the major components of a processor, e.g.,
the core, memory hierarchy, I/O subsystem and basic operating system
constructs that utilize them.

## ECE3072

### Electrical Energy Systems

Non-renewable and renewable/sustainable energy sources. Processes, costs, and
environmental impact of conversion into electric energy. Delivery and control
of electric energy, electromechanical systems.

## ECE3077

### Introduction to Probability and Statistics for ECE

Introduction to probability, random variables, distributions, estimation,
confidence intervals, linear regression and other tools for describing and
managing uncertainty in electrical and computer engineering.

## ECE3084

### Signals and Systems

Continuous-time linear systems and signals, their mathematical
representations, and computational tools; Fourier and Laplace transforms,
convolutions, input-output responses, stability.

## ECE3150

### VLSI and Advanced Digital Design

Advanced digital design issues in the context of VLSI systems. Introduction to
a design methodology that encompasses the range from architectural models to
circuit simulation.

## ECE3170

### Cryptographic Hardware for Embedded Systems

Introduction to cryptography and authentication from a hardware-centric
perspective. Historic ciphers, symmetric and asymmetric encryption, and power
analysis attacks are taught from a digital and VLSI design perspective.

## ECE3251

### Optimization for Information Systems

An introduction to the fundamentals of optimization with a focus on algorithms
and applications in signal processing, control systems, machine learning, and
robotics.

## ECE3300

### Electromechanical and Electromagnetic Energy Conversion

Introduction to three phase power systems, electromechanical energy conversion
and operating principles of electric machines.

## ECE3400

### Analog Electronics

Analysis and design of electronic circuits and systems. Biasing, small-signal
analysis, frequency response, feedback amplifiers, active filters, non-linear
op-amp applications, and oscillators.

## ECE3450

### Semiconductor Devices

Properties of semiconductor devices. Applications in current and future
computers, fiber optic and wireless communication systems. Future needs of
high frequency, GHz-range, device operation.

## ECE3550

### Feedback Control Systems

Analysis and design of control systems. Laplace transforms, transfer
functions, and stability. Feedback systems: tracking and disturbance
rejection. Graphical design techniques.

## ECE3600

### Computer Communications

Basic concepts of computer communication network protocols.

## ECE3710

### Circuits and Electronics

An introduction to electric circuit elements and electronic devices and a  
study of circuits containing such devices.

## ECE3741

### Instrumentation and Electronics Laboratory

Basic analog and digital electronic circuits and principles. Techniques of  
electrical and electronic measurements with laboratory instruments.

## ECE38XX

### Special Topics

Used for courses under development or courses being offered only one time.  
Last digit indicates number of credit hours.

## ECE390X

### Special Problems

Individually arranged study or project under the direction of a faculty  
member. Last digit indicates number of credit hours.

## ECE3951

### Undergraduate Research I

Participation in an individual or group research project under direction of  
a faculty member.

## ECE3952

### Undergraduate Research II

Participation in an individual or group research project under direction of  
a faculty member. Requires a formal research report.

#### Pagination

  * Current page  1 
  * Page  2 
  * Page  3 
  * Page  4 
  * Page  5 
  * Page  6 
  * Next page Next 
  * Last page Last 

Tuesday, 17 September 2024 4:33 PM EDT

