#  ECE Annual Report 2023 - 2024

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

Image

# **A Message from the Chair**

The 2023-2024 academic year and fiscal year has been an extraordinary chapter
for the Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE). This
year, artificial intelligence (AI) has played a pivotal role in shaping our
story, a topic that is highlighted in-detail in this annual report.

Research and faculty achievements have also been particularly noteworthy this
year. Our faculty have distinguished themselves through groundbreaking
research initiatives, securing prestigious grants, and publishing influential
papers in top-tier journals. Their dedication to advancing the frontiers of
knowledge has enhanced our academic reputation and provided our students with
a rich, research-oriented environment.

Our ongoing collaborations with industry and public sector leaders bridge the
gap between our academic and research achievements and their practical
applications. These relationships continue to remain vibrant aspects of our
community. They have provided our students and faculty members with unmatch­ed
opportunities to make an immediate impact at a societal level.

As we move forward, our promise remains steadfast: to continue building a
better tomorrow. This promise drives us, inspires us, and reaffirms the vital
role that Georgia Tech ECE plays in the landscape of global technology and
innovation.

Thank you for all you do to support ECE.

Go Jackets!

Image

**Arijit Raychowdhury**  
Steve W. Chaddick School Chair and Professor  


Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

Image

“This year, artificial intelligence has played a pivotal role in shaping our
story.”  


DOWNLOAD THE REPORT

## At a Glance

Image

Image

Image

Image

Image

Image

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

## **Leading in AI Education**

Georgia Tech ECE is pioneering a future where artificial intelligence (AI) is
strategically integrated into all aspects of learning, enriching the
educational journey for today’s students, and empowering the next generation
of leaders.

As AI continues to transform our everyday lives, we recognize the importance
of equipping students with the skills and knowledge to thrive in an AI-driven
world.

This year, the **_College of Engineering_** (CoE) took decisive steps forward
like **_introducing the AI Makerspace_** in partnership with NVIDIA and
Penguin Computing. ECE was proud to play a leading role in making this one-of-
a-kind AI supercomputer designed specifically for students a reality.
Additionally, along with CoE, we’ve **_developed and strengthened AI courses
and opportunities_** for students to pursue, ensuring they're prepared for the
challenges and opportunities of tomorrow.

As leaders in AI, we understand that AI transcends the virtual realm of
algorithms and advanced computing technology. It profoundly influences and
advances tangible aspects of the physical world today. AI is already making
its powerful and unique impression on all corners of the human experience.
Recognizing the unpredictable nature of powerful change, we choose to actively
lead where AI and humanity meet.

Image

For today’s students to be tomorrow’s AI innovators, they can’t just learn
theory. That’s why Georgia Tech created a purpose-built artificial
intelligence supercomputer hub specifically for students. The Georgia Tech AI
Makerspace, in collaboration with NVIDIA, gives undergrads access to some of
the world’s most powerful computational hardware — right here on campus.

####  What IS Artificial Intelligence

Engineers working in machine learning and AI offer a crash course in the basic
concepts and buzzwords that have moved from the lab to everyday life.

Read More

####  Reimagining AI Courses for Undergraduates

Focusing artificial intelligence content in core courses will equip students
with knowledge and hands-on experience companies need in their workforces.

Read More

####  NVIDIA Chief Scientist Talks Future of AI Hardware

Bill Dally, chief scientist at NVIDIA, visited the Georgia Tech campus on
April 10, 2024, to deliver a Distinguished Lecture hosted by ECE.

Read More

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

# EXPLORE THE REPORT

Image

Leadership Transitions

Image

Student Leaders

Image

Finances and Research Funding

Image

Faculty and Staff

Image

Research and Education Highlights

Image

Alumni Distinction

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

## FY 23 Donor Roll

Meet the corporations, organizations, and individuals  who showed their
generous support in the amount of $8,418,158 to the School and its affiliates
during this fiscal year!

VIEW THE DONOR ROLL

* * *

Image

### **_Transforming  Tomorrow: The Campaign for Georgia Tech_**

Over the next three years, with the support of alumni, parents, faculty,
staff, friends, corporations, and foundations, Georgia Tech – and ECE - can
secure the resources that will help us achieve the most ambitious goals in our
history.

_For more information about “Transforming Tomorrow” and ECE’s fundraising
activities, contact Jeff Colburn, director of ECE Alumni Development at_
_jeff.colburn@ece.gatech.edu_ _or Patricia Allen, director of ECE Corporate
Development, at_ _patricia.allen@gatech.edu_.

READ MORE

Blank Space (medium)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

# STAY  
CONNECTED

Image

Visit Here

Image

Follow ECE Here

Image

Follow ECE on Linkedin

Image

## FY23 Annual Report

  * Leadership Transitions
  * Faculty and Staff
  * Students and Student Groups
  * AI Education 
  * Alumni
  * Finances
  * Report Home
  * Research and Education Highlights

