#  ECE Home

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

### Dupuis Receives Japan Prize

The highly regarded prize — regarded by much of the scientific community as
second only to the Nobel Prize — recognizes pioneering work in enabling mass
production of compound semiconductors that fuel our information age.

Learn More

Image

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

### Georgia Tech Joins Apple’s New Silicon Initiative

Georgia Tech electrical and computer engineering students will now benefit
from an expanded tapeout-to-silicon curriculum and have access to Apple
engineers to better prepare for a career in hardware engineering.

Read more

Image

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

### Student Analog Chip Designs Come to Life Through New Collaboration with
Texas Instruments

Students experience the real-world analog chip tapeout process, with their
designs being produced at Texas Instruments’ state-of-the-art wafer fabs.

Learn more

Image

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

## About The School of Electrical and Computer Engineering

The School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at the Georgia
Institute of Technology is one of the largest producers of electrical
engineers and computer engineers in the world. From every day to the hard to
imagine, ECE is at the core of almost all technology. Our diverse graduates
are among the most highly sought after by industry and by top graduate
schools, medical schools, and law schools. From computer chips and satellites
to medical devices and renewable energy technologies, electrical and computer
engineering makes our modern life possible.

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

LEARN MORE ABOUT US

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

#  
  
ECE by the Numbers

Image

Image

Image

Image

## FIND YOUR PLACE AT ECE

Our top electrical and computer engineering program has something for everyone
and anyone looking to innovate, create, and explore. The next generation of
ECE engineers are recruited to work in diverse industries like energy,
robotics, manufacturing, defense, and computing. From current students to our
industry partners, we are working to transform what if, into what's next!

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

Image

###

Faculty Openings

##### Join the Renowned Faculty of Georgia Tech ECE

Explore openings that foster collaboration, interdisciplinary research, and
faculty development in the heart of vibrant Atlanta. Join a diverse and
inclusive community shaping the future of technology.

Current Openings

## Future Students

Image

Learn more about Georgia Tech ECE, admissions, campus life, costs, and how it
can position you for your future career.  

Information for Future Students

## Industry Partners

ECE has established strong partnerships with industry leaders to foster
collaboration and innovation in the field.

Learn About Our Partners

## Current Students

Image

Current students can stay connected and engaged with ECE for resources,
updates, and opportunities within the school.

Information for Current Students

## Alumni

ECE boasts an impressive network of accomplished alumni making significant
contributions to the technology industry.

Learn About Our Alumni

## People

Image

Georgia Tech ECE faculty and staff are committed to serving the Tech
community. Learn more about how they are serving.

Learn About ECE People

## Advisory Board

ECE Advisory Board is comprised of industry leaders providing external
expertise and guidance to the School.

Meet the Advisory Board

## Makerspaces

Welcome to ECE's Makerspaces, where students turn their ideas into reality
with both essential and cutting-edge tools and technology. These vibrant,
student-run hubs are the ultimate playgrounds for exploring hands-on
engineering challenges.

### Introducing the AI Makerspace

For today’s students to be tomorrow’s AI innovators, they can’t just learn
theory. That’s why we’ve created a purpose-built artificial intelligence
supercomputer hub specifically for students. The Georgia Tech AI Makerspace,
in collaboration with NVIDIA, gives undergrads access to some of the world’s
most powerful computational hardware — right here on campus.

Explore More

Image

### The Hive

What used to be an auditorium on Georgia Tech’s campus is now the largest
electronics-oriented student makerspace in the country. School of Electrical
and Computer Engineering The Van Leer Interdisciplinary Design Commons (also
called The Hive)  offers a hands-on learning environment where they can work
together to solve technology design challenges.

Explore the Hive

Image

Blank Space (medium)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

## Graduate Admissions

Image

Apply Now

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

#  

# Leading Research and Innovation

**Every day at Georgia Tech ECE, we turn "what if" into  "what's next"…**

### “Game”-changing Visual Tools Help Students Grasp Quantum Concepts

The new state-of-the-art artificial intelligence supercomputer hub was used to
host the virtual open hackathon, giving students and researchers the chance to
improve and showcase their interdisciplinary applications.

Read More

Image

### New Algorithm Identifies Increase in Critical Infrastructure Security
Vulnerabilities

Led by Ph.D. student Ryan Pickren, the research discovered 37 times more
vulnerabilities in industrial control systems (which oversee and automate
industrial processes) than was previously thought.

Read More

Image

####  Research

From semiconductors and nanotechnology to artificial intelligence and machine
learning, Georgia Tech ECE is at the forefront of cutting-edge research and
innovation. Explore the impressive range of ground-breaking research conducted
at the School.

Research

Learn More About ECE Research

####  Technical Interest Groups

Distinguished by collaborative research excellence, Georgia Tech ECE is a
leader in the field. Explore the School's 11 highly interdisciplinary
technical interest groups, which collectively represent ECE's major research
and academic thrusts.

Learn More

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

## All Industries Want an ECE Major

Hear directly from students about what it's like to attend the Georgia Tech
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE). Discover what led
students to pursue an electrical or computer engineering degree (hint: ECE
majors are in high demand across industries), as well as the extraordinary
opportunities offered by the School, including the chance to collaborate with
world-renowned professors on pioneering research ventures.

## Featured News

####  Fall 2024 ECE Graduates Reflect on the Journey to Graduation

ECE Master’s graduates share their experiences, challenges, and triumphs as
they look back on the journey that shaped their academic and professional
growth.

Read More

####  Datta Receives University Research Award for Excellence in Semiconductor
Research

The prestigious award, given by the Semiconductor Research Corporation and
Semiconductor Industry Association, recognizes lifetime research contributions
to the U.S. semiconductor industry by university faculty.

Read More

## News

### Callis and Joshi Recognized for Breakthrough RFID Technology

Feb 04, 2025 --

The advancements aim to accelerate the adoption of 5G technology and enable
the integration of RFID into virtual reality.

### Russell Dupuis Receives Japan Prize for Laying the Foundation for LEDs,
Solar Cells, Lasers, and Other Everyday Tech

Jan 28, 2025 --

The highly regarded prize recognizes ECE researcher’s pioneering work enabling
mass production of compound semiconductors that fuel our information age.

### From Ideas to Solutions: Georgia Tech's First Energy and Sustainability
Hackathon

Jan 28, 2025 --

EnergyHack @GT, Georgia Tech’s inaugural student-run energy and sustainability
hackathon, kicked off Jan. 17-19, 2025.

### Fernandes Awarded IEEE Electron Devices Society Masters Student Fellowship

Jan 22, 2025 --

The graduate student plans to use the fellowship to advance research on
integrating ferroelectric materials into 3D NAND flash technology for non-
volatile memory applications.

More news

## Upcoming Events

February

17

2025

### ECE Seminar | Navigating the Corporate Life @Cisco

12:30 PM

February

17

2025

### College of Engineering Dean's Distinguished Lecture Series | Blake Moret

2:00 PM

February

19

2025

### Conference Presentation Workshop

3:00 PM

