#  ECE Student Seminar - Genesis of CallerID and Call Centers

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

January

29

2024

12:30 PM

Contact

Mary Ann Weitnauer  
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Location

Van Leer, C240

#### Keywords

ECE Student Seminar

Monday, January 29, 2024 12:30PM

**Date:**  Monday, January 29, 2024

**Time:**  12:30 p.m. - 1:20 p.m.

**Location:** Van Leer, C240

**Speaker:  **Aleksander Szlam

**Speakers' Title:**  Chairman and CEO of Melita International, Inc

**Seminar Title:  **Genesis of CallerID and Call Centers

**Abstract:**  
Before mid 1980’s – primitive, analog telephone sets without displays were
used for voice communications between friends, family and businesses. People
were unable to see who was calling and why. Company’s personnel receiving
phone calls had to inquire and validate callers through many security steps.
Placing outgoing phone calls to customers, agents wasted vast amount of time
listening to busy, no answer signals, bad/changed phone number announcements…
On the average, agents spent 85% of unproductive time trying to reach
customers. Businesses employed much extra personnel due to the high
inefficiencies…

It all changed forever with the introduction of CallerID and Call Centers
intelligent solutions …Here is a brief story…

**Biographical Sketch of the Speaker:**  
Alek Szlam was the Chairman and CEO of Melita International, Inc., a
corporation he founded in 1983. He and wife Halina took the company out of
their garage and evolved it into publicly traded, profitable debt-free global
leader. The innovations and business solutions laid foundation for the Call
Center Industry, with installations in over 40 countries.

Prolific inventor, Alek’s name is associated with over 150 innovations and
patents throughout the world, including solutions based on “Caller ID”,
“Predictive Dialing” and the various technologies upon which global Call
Center Industry and mobile messaging are based today.

Born in Poland, Alek’s family immigrated to the United States, arriving in
Atlanta, April of 1970 where he studied at the Georgia Institute of Technology
obtaining bachelor and master degrees in electrical engineering.

For his efforts as an inventor and entrepreneur, Alek was inducted to Call
Center Magazine’s Hall of Fame in December 2021, received “Life time
Achievement” award by _TMC_ and _Customer Interaction Solutions_ magazine in
May 2006, was named the “Pioneer in the Industry” by _Call Center_ magazine in
August 1997 and was named _Inc. Magazine's_ 1991 Entrepreneur of the Year,
Southern Region.

He resides with wife Halina in Johns Creek, Georgia and have two children and
four grandchildren.

