#  ECE Seminar - How Do You Turn Your Science into a Business? Lessons Learned
from My Entrepreneurial Journey

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

February

12

2024

12:30 PM

Contact

Mary Ann Weitnauer  
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Location

Virtual

Location URL

https://tinyurl.com/32y3jwu7

#### Keywords

ECE Student Seminar

Monday, February 12, 2024 12:30PM

**Date:**  Monday, February 12, 2024

**Time:**  12:30 p.m. - 1:20 p.m.

**Location:**Virtual

**Speaker:  **Amol M. Joshi

**Speakers' Title:**  Bern Beatty Fellow and an Associate Professor of
Strategic Management at the Wake Forest University (WFU) School of Business

**Seminar Title:  **How Do You Turn Your Science into a Business? Lessons
Learned from My Entrepreneurial Journey

**Abstract:**  
What happens next after you and your fellow researchers create a new invention
that has commercial potential? How do you translate promising scientific
discoveries from the lab into real-life applications in the marketplace? Dr.
Amol M. Joshi will share lessons learned from his industry expertise as the
co-inventor of two patented voice technologies and the Co-Founder of BeVocal,
a Silicon Valley venture capital-backed speech recognition software startup
(acquired by Nuance Communications). He will also provide the latest insights
from his research evaluating innovation policies at NASA, NSF, NIH, and the
U.S. Dept. of Energy. Building on his experience training scientists,
engineers, and technical founders of science-based businesses in the U.S.,
Austria, Denmark, and Vietnam, Dr. Joshi will explain effective approaches for
externally transferring and licensing out technologies from university and
government R&D labs to accelerate innovation, drive commercialization, and
spark economic growth.

**Biographical Sketch of the Speaker:**  
Amol M. Joshi, Ph.D. is the Bern Beatty Fellow and an Associate Professor of
Strategic Management at the Wake Forest University (WFU) School of Business.
He holds a joint appointment as an Associate Professor of Innovation and
Commercialization at the Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine. Amol
is an Affiliate Faculty Member of the WFU School of Medicine (Centers for
Healthcare Innovation, Artificial Intelligence, Biomedical Informatics, and
Precision Medicine). He is Faculty Representative to the WFU Board of
Trusteesâ€™ Finance Committee and a Voting Member of the University Priorities
Committee.

