#  ECE4007

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. ECE Courses

## ECE Culminating Design Project

This course is no longer offered

(2-0-0-4)

**CMPE Degree:** This course is for the CMPE degree.

**EE Degree:** This course is for the EE degree.

**Lab Hours:** 0 supervised lab hours and 0 unsupervised lab hours.

**Technical Interest Group(s) / Course Type(s):** BSCmpE core (2012-13
curriculum), BSEE core (2012-13 curriculum)

**Course Coordinator:**

**Prerequisites:** See topical outline

**Corequisites:** None.

### Catalog Description

Team-oriented culminating design project in electrical/computer engineering,
incorporating engineering standards and realistic constraints. Requires formal
reports and group presentations.

### Textbook(s)

### Course Outcomes

  1. effectively work in teams to produce a final design project.
  2. define the scope of a challenging open-ended design problem, research technical literature, and propose a design approach.
  3. identify and apply appropriate engineering standards to a design and consider how multiple realistic design constraints affect design alternatives.
  4. describe qualitative design goals, and determine quantitative design specifications.
  5. prepare and update a project timeline in the form of a Gantt Chart, including tasks and milestones.
  6. prepare and update a realistic project budget of actual development and prototyping costs; if appropriate, estimate manufacturing costs and profit.
  7. reduce the design to practice in the form of a working prototype, and demonstrate performance of the prototype as compared to the quantitative specs.
  8. prepare a thorough documentation package that is of sufficient detail so that other engineers could understand and recreate the project.
  9. write documents with correct technical content, sufficiently detailed explanations, and proper formatting, spelling, punctuation, grammar, and usage.
  10. make effective oral presentations incorporating significant technical content using standard presentation software.

### Student Outcomes

In the parentheses for each Student Outcome:  
"P" for primary indicates the outcome is a major focus of the entire course.  
“M” for moderate indicates the outcome is the focus of at least one component
of the course, but not majority of course material.  
“LN” for “little to none” indicates that the course does not contribute
significantly to this outcome.

1\. ( ) An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering
problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics

2\. ( ) An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet
specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as
well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors

3\. ( ) An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences

4\. ( ) An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in
engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the
impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and
societal contexts

5\. ( ) An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together
provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment,
establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives

6\. ( ) An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze
and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions

7\. ( ) An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using
appropriate learning strategies.

### Strategic Performance Indicators (SPIs)

Not Applicable

### Course Objectives

  1. work in teams to propose, formulate, and solve a challenging open-ended design problem of significant scope, depth, and breadth.
  2. understand and incorporate engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints, within realistic design time, budget, and performance objectives.
  3. prepare and update qualitative design goals, quantitative design specifications, realistic budgets and realistic schedules.
  4. develop a prototype of the proposed design and demonstrate the prototype in accordance with the specifications (i.e., reduce the design to practice).
  5. effectively communicate information relating to all aspects of the design process in written, oral, and graphical form.

### Topical Outline

**Prerequisites:** ECE 4001* and (ECE 3005 or ECE 3006* or ECE 3042) and (ECE
3040 and (ECE 3042 or ECE 3043) or (ECE 3055 or ECE 3056) and ECE 3030) [all
courses min C, except ECE 3005 or ECE 3006] * Prerequisites indicated with an
asterisk may be taken concurrently with ECE 4007. **ECE 4001/4007 will be
replaced by ECE 4011/4012 beginning Fall 2013.** This course satisfies the
major design requirement for EE and CmpE majors and provides senior ECE
students with the necessary skills to address and solve open-ended design
problems. Working individually, students will research and write a topical
background summary, including an annotated bibliography. Working in teams,
students will complete a semester-long project requiring specification,
design, implementation, and testing. Projects must be based on the knowledge
and skills acquired in earlier course work, and incorporate appropriate
engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints. For teams including
CmpE majors, the project must incorporate both hardware and software design
elements and trade-offs. Emphasis is placed on the design process, the
technical aspects of the design, and on reducing the proposed design to
practice. The course includes a weekly one-hour common lecture to provide
supporting information and instructions to all design teams. Lecture topics
include the following: * Course overview and deliverables * Proposal/PDR
written report and oral presentation * Codes and standards * Project
specifications * Project budget and schedule * Ordering parts * Intellectual
property and laboratory notebooks * Design considerations, constraints and
tradeoffs * Engineering documentation * Final written report and oral
presentation * Project demonstration All ECE 4007 projects must include, as a
minimum, the following elements, with all deliverables submitted
electronically. Faculty supervising individual projects may impose additional
requirements or constraints. Regular Progress Reports -- Minimum of four
periodic (weekly reporting may be required) progress reports, including both
team and individual contributions. Formal Written Design Proposal/Preliminary
Design Review (PDR) -- Each design team must submit a formal written project
proposal or PDR to enable evaluation of the projects feasibility/progress and
the technical approach and to identify quantitative project specifications.
Proposal/PDR Oral Presentation (requires significant participation by each
team member) -- The proposal/PDR presentation should be prepared using
standard presentation software and include an introduction with project
overview, motivation, and relevance; relevant coverage of all written report
elements; and be presented at an abstraction level appropriate to the project
scenario and audience. Final Written Report -- Each design team must submit a
formal, written final report that is sufficient to allow project replication
by a suitable engineering team, or, if appropriate, project continuation by
another student team. Final Oral Presentation (requires significant
participation by each team member) -- The final presentation should include
all the characteristics of the Proposal/PDR Presentation with the addition of
an emphasis on results. Project Demonstration -- Prior to the end of the
semester, each team must demonstrate their project to their faculty advisor
and compare functional results with project design goals and specifications.
This demonstration could take place either during the final presentation or at
a mutually convenient time. If the project is not suitable for a final
demonstration, then some visual representation of project functionality should
appear in the final presentation. Peer evaluation -- Each design team should
participate in a formal peer review process to assess both team and individual
performance at both the project proposal and the project completion stages.

