# energy

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

## energy

November

18

2024

### ECE Student Seminar | A Rewarding Career in Energy - Cloned

12:30 PM

November

18

2024

### ECE Student Seminar | A Rewarding Career in Energy

12:30 PM

### Trio of Georgia Tech-Affiliated Research Projects Recognized at Top
Cybersecurity Conference

Oct 24, 2024 --

Eight Georgia Tech researchers were honored with the ACM Distinguished Paper
Award for their contributions to cybersecurity at the ACM Conference on
Computer and Communications Security (CCS).

### Athena Receives Prestigious Stanford Energy Postdoctoral Fellowship

Feb 08, 2024 --

The ECE Ph.D. candidate will research emerging materials and devices for
energy-efficient sustainable computing.

### Emeka Obikwelu Named as 3M Fellow

Oct 03, 2016 --

ECE Ph.D. student Emeka Obikwelu has been named as the School's first 3M
Fellow.

### Sunlight and Cellphones: Undergraduate Researchers Bring Solar Power to
Haiti, One House at a Time

Jun 24, 2016 --

A team from the Opportunity Research Scholars Program installed a solar
microgrid system in homes in Thoman, Haiti.

### Lambert Named President-Elect of IEEE PES

Nov 06, 2017 --

Frank Lambert has been named president-elect for the IEEE Power and Energy
Society (PES).

### Grijalva Named to NIST Smart Grid Advisory Committee

Oct 12, 2017 --

ECE Professor Santiago Grijalva has been named to the Federal Smart Grid
Advisory Committee of the National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST) for a three-year term.

### Georgia Tech EcoCAR Team Wins Top Prizes in Diverse Categories

Jun 26, 2018 --

The Georgia Tech EcoCAR 3 team placed fifth overall and won numerous top
prizes at EcoCAR 3, a four-year student competition sponsored by the U.S.
Department of Energy (DoE) and General Motors.

### Vejdan Earns IEEE Best Paper Award

Mar 29, 2018 --

ECE Ph.D. student Sadegh Vejdan received the Best Paper Award at the 2018 IEEE
Texas Power and Energy Conference, held February 8-9 in College Station,
Texas.

### Sarvey Selected for IEEE Best Paper Award

Mar 17, 2018 --

ECE Ph.D. student Tom Sarvey has been named the recipient of the 2017 Best
Paper Award for the IEEE Transactions on Components, Packaging, and
Manufacturing Technology in the Components: Characterization and Modeling
category.

### Rincón-Mora Named NAI Fellow

Jan 04, 2018 --

ECE Professor Gabriel Alfonso Rincón-Mora has been named a Fellow of the
National Academy of Inventors (NAI).

### Miroslav Begovic Elected IEEE-PES Treasurer

Nov 24, 2009 --

ECE Professor Miroslav Begovic has been elected treasurer of IEE

### Charging Ahead

Dec 16, 2014 --

If big problems demand big responses, then it’s only appropriate that the
nation’s biggest engineering school steps up to address perhaps the nation’s
biggest engineering challenge: energy.

### Saeedifard Receives IEEE Working Group Award

Aug 11, 2015 --

ECE Assistant Professor Maryam Saeedifard received the 2015 Technical
Committee Working Group Recognition Award for her paper, “Trends in Microgrid
Control,” from the IEEE Power System Dynamic Performance Committee.

### Tech’s Campus Gets ‘Smart’

May 26, 2015 --

Georgia Tech’s campus is home to many research laboratories, but how often is
Tech itself the subject of research?

### Georgia Tech and Sandia Form Research Partnership

Jun 11, 2015 --

Collaboration Expands University's World-class Research Capabilities in Energy
and Other Technical Areas

### States Can Lower Electric Bills with Clean Power Plan

Jul 27, 2015 --

Georgia Tech identified least-cost clean power pathways that would lower
household electricity bills and reduce carbon pollution.

### 12 Emerging Technologies That May Help Power the Future

Apr 17, 2016 --

Georgia Tech researchers are developing a broad range of energy technologies.

### Department of Energy Awards Contract to Detect Cyber Attacks on Utilities

Jan 13, 2014 --

Georgia Tech has been awarded $1.7 million to help detect cyber attacks on
utility companies.

### United States Energy Secretary Visits Georgia Tech

Apr 24, 2014 --

Visit to campus helps faculty, researchers keep a pulse on federal priorities.

### Marilyn Brown on EnergyWire: Lack of energy efficiency in the South

Jun 03, 2014 --

EPA's proposed rules to stem carbon pollution could force utility
commissioners to make unpopular decisions around rates, fuel choice,
generation mix and efficiency.

### Georgia Tech competes in EcoCAR 3

Aug 04, 2014 --

Students will spend four years redesigning the Chevrolet Camaro into a hybrid
car.

### Georgia Tech Celebrates Opening of New Energy Project in Midtown Atlanta

Jun 17, 2021 --

Georgia Tech partnered with Georgia Power to host the dedication of the
Microgrid in Tech Square.

### Georgia Institute of Technology and NREL Announce Plans to Collaborate

Jun 17, 2021 --

Georgia Tech and the U.S. DOE's National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)
have entered into an agreement to bolster the interactions, collaborations,
and joint scientific output of both institutions.

### AlRegib Discusses Machine Learning Topics on Scientific Sense Podcast

Feb 17, 2021 --

ECE Professor Ghassan AlRegib and his expertise in machine learning were
recently featured on Scientific Sense, a daily podcast focused on science and
economics.

### GT IEEE Power and Energy Society Places Second in Student Branch Chapter
Program

Jan 04, 2021 --

The Georgia Tech student branch chapter of the IEEE Power and Energy Society
(PES) was awarded the 2nd place prize for IEEE Region 1-7, which covers the
United States and Canada, in the 2020 PES High Performing Student Branch
Chapter Program.

### Baking and Boiling Botnets Could Drive Energy Market Swings and Damage

Aug 04, 2020 --

Evil armies of internet-connected appliances could be hijacked to slightly
manipulate energy demand, potentially driving price swings.

### Duran Chosen as Georgia Tech Clark Scholar

Nov 02, 2020 --

Hector Duran, a first-year student in the Georgia Tech School of Electrical
and Computer Engineering (ECE), has been chosen as a Georgia Tech Clark
Scholar.

### Dupuis Honored with Materials Today Innovation Award

Jan 06, 2020 --

ECE Professor Russell D. Dupuis was presented with the Materials Today
Innovation Award at the 2019 Materials Research Society Fall Meeting and
Exhibit, held December 1-6 in Boston, Massachusetts.

### National Labs, Georgia Tech, Collaborate on AI Research

Nov 05, 2019 --

Georgia Tech is part of a new research center created to solve some of the
most challenging issues in AI.

