#  GEDC Distinguished Lecture | Advanced Technology at MIT Lincoln Laboratory: From Physics to Fielded Systems 

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

April

16

2024

11:00 AM

Contact

Julie Nguyen

Location

TSRB 118 Auditorium

#### Event categories

Seminar/Lecture/Colloquium

#### Keywords

go-ien

Tuesday, April 16, 2024 11:00AM

**Abstract:** Lincoln Laboratory is a Federally Funded Research and
Development Center (FFRDC) managed by the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT) for the Department of Defense. Since its establishment in
1951, the Laboratory has simultaneously performed both prototyping of complex
systems (e.g., radar, communications, signal collection, imaging, biosensing,
cyber security) and research and development of advanced technologies to
augment or enable these systems. During my 30 years at Lincoln Laboratory, I
have been fortunate to have had several careers spanning this range of program
activity including serving as a hardware systems engineer on an airborne radar
testbed, developing photonic analog-to-digital converter (ADC) and high-power
semiconductor optical amplifier (SOA) technologies, and leading teams of
scientists and engineers to explore the possibilities of quantum computing and
sensing. I’ll start this talk by presenting a brief overview of my career path
including the critical boost provided by Georgia Tech during my doctoral
studies. I’ll then provide an overview of Lincoln Laboratory, focusing on some
of the photonic systems that have been fielded and the components that have
enabled these system demonstrations. I’ll also describe the Laboratory’s
resources and activities to develop photonic integrated circuits (PICs) and
their application to microwave systems, inertial sensing, lidar, optical
atomic clocks, and quantum computing.

**Bio:** Paul Juodawlkis is the Group Leader of MIT Lincoln Laboraory’s
Quantum Information and Integrated Nanosystems Group, where he provides
technical and administrative leadership for ~150 scientists, engineers, and
support staff engaged in the research and development of advanced computing
and sensing systems leveraging both quantum and classical technologies. He
also guides the Group’s integrated photonics team, which is working to develop
photonic platforms (i.e., silicon-based, compound-semiconductor, hybrid) for
application to quantum information, optical communication, laser radar, high-
energy laser, inertial sensing and microwave sensing systems. Paul is a Fellow
of both Optica (formerly OSA) and the IEEE, and he has been an active
volunteer in technical conferences, professional society leadership, and
advisory boards. He holds a B.S. degree from Michigan Technological
University, an M.S. degree from Purdue University, and a Ph.D. degree from the
Georgia Institute of Technology, all in electrical engineering.

##### Pizza and soda will be available after the seminar.

