#  Graduate Admissions

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

###  Our graduates are among the most sought after in the world.

The school is home to **11 areas of specialization** , **19  research
centers**, and numerous laboratories. During the last five years, ECE averages
nearly $80 million per year in corporate, governmental, and research
foundation support.



Apply Now

Image

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

Thanks for your interest in the graduate school of ECE at Georgia Tech! We
look forward to hearing from you. The following is an overview of everything
you need to know about ECE graduate admissions, including how to apply,
admission requirements, and important dates.

The admissions committee considers several factors when making admissions
decisions, including your academic performance at prior institutions (GPAs),
statement of purpose, and letters of recommendation. GRE scores are no longer
required. GRE scores will be considered if submitted, but are not necessary.
Applicants' undergraduate record and recommendation letters will be given
greater consideration.

Image

Program FAQs

Contact the Graduate Office

## What You Can Study

The School of Electrical and Computer Engineering has the largest ECE graduate
program in the United States, providing large depth and breadth of
opportunities for students. With over 110 faculty members at three campuses,
ECE covers a broad range of research topics and offers over 100 graduate-level
ECE courses in a wide selection of areas. The school is home to 11 areas of
specialization, 19 research centers, and numerous laboratories.

ECE graduate degree options at Georgia Tech include the M.S.E.C.E. non-thesis
option, the M.S.E.C.E. thesis option, and the Ph.D. Students interested in
interdisciplinary degrees may work towards an M.S. in Cybersecurity or
Bioengineering. Georgia Tech also offers a Ph.D. in Robotics, Machine
Learning, or Bioengineering. For more specific information, please select the
links below.

### More Information on Your Options

  * Master of Science Degree Requirements
  * Ph.D. Degree Requirements
  * Distance Learning M.S. Degree
  * Master of Science in Cybersecurity
  * Online Master of Science in Cybersecurity
  * Master of Science and Ph.D. in Bioengineering
  * Master of Science in Robotics
  * Ph.D. in Robotics
  * Ph.D. in Machine Learning
  * Georgia Tech Europe and Double Degree Program

## Where You Can Study

Graduate students have the flexibility to pursue studies and work experience
in a variety of enriching settings from Atlanta, the startup hub of the
southeast to Metz, France.

**Main Campus – Atlanta**

ECE faculty, students, and staff are housed in 10 different buildings on the
main Georgia Tech campus in Atlanta, Georgia. In addition to the 20-plus
research centers within the School, ECE faculty and students also work closely
with all nine interdisciplinary research institutes on campus. Learn more
about the Atlanta campus.

**International Study**

Many international programs are available to ECE graduate students in order to
broaden their personal, professional, and intellectual horizons. Students may
participate in the following international programs: Georgia Tech Lorraine,
study abroad programs through the Office of International Education, and the
Global Internship Program. Learn more about these international opportunities.

**Distance Learning**

Georgia Tech offers M.S./M.S.E.C.E. degrees and a Professional Master’s Degree
in Applied Systems Engineering through an online program administered through
the Office of Professional Education.

Off-campus students may elect to take classes via video, Internet, or in a
combination of the two formats, allowing them to study these materials at any
time of day and at any place. Faculty members who teach these courses interact
with students via telephone, fax, and email.

Students may pursue options in computer engineering,
telecommunications/digital signal processing, and electrical energy/systems
and controls. Learn more about this degree program.

Image

## Graduate Research

Graduate students may choose from a variety of technical areas in which to
pursue their master’s and doctoral studies. ECE is home to 11 technical
interest groups (TIGs) and is a lead or primary player in many different
interdisciplinary research centers that attract a broad array of corporate,
governmental, and research foundation support. Click the buttons below to
learn more.

Technical Interest Groups

Research Centers

### Admission Requirements

#### **Graduate Program Requirements**

Students with a previous degree in engineering or a related field from a
recognized institute of higher education are eligible to apply for admission
to our graduate programs.

For more information about the graduate program offerings in electrical and
computer engineering at Georgia Tech, see:

  * Master's Degrees
  * Ph.D. Degrees

The admission committee considers several factors when making admission
decisions: your academic performance at prior institutions (GPAs), your
statement of purpose, your letters of recommendation, and standardized test
scores (if supplied). All of these factors are important. We welcome all
applicants.

### Mandatory Documents for All Programs

  * Transcript (unofficial or official) for eligible degrees. Official transcripts are welcomed but are only required after you have been admitted.
  * Three letters of recommendation.
  * Statement of purpose (1,000 word maximum).
  * International students only: Official TOEFL or IELTS Scores.

*Exemption of the TOEFL or IELTS test is determined by the Graduate Studies Office. In addition, this link is provided for more information.

### Eligible Degrees

Most students who are accepted into the School of Electrical and Computer
Engineering's graduate program have a degree in electrical and/or computer
engineering. Applicants with degrees in other engineering disciplines,
computer science, mathematics, or the physical sciences are also eligible to
apply. Qualified applicants with degrees in disciplines other than electrical
and/or computer engineering are encouraged to take undergraduate ECE courses
as preparation before enrolling in ECE graduate courses. Persons with
engineering technology (EET) degrees or persons with non-engineering degrees
not mentioned above must first earn a bachelor's or master's of science degree
in one of the disciplines listed above before applying to our graduate
program.

*It is highly discouraged to apply for the master's program if you have already received a master's degree in ECE, EE, or CE from a U.S. institution.

### Standardized Tests

#### **Graduate Record Examination (GRE)**

GRE scores are not required, but will still be considered if submitted.  

Institute Code: R5248  
  
Department Code: 1203

**TOEFL**

The TOEFL is one option for international students to demonstrate English
proficiency.

Minimum score required:

  * Overall minimum score of 90.
  * Minimum section scores of 19. 

**Exam results more than two years old cannot be considered. Exam may be taken
multiple times, with only the highest score being considered.**

Institute Code: 5248  
  
Department Code: 66  
  


**IELTS**

The IELTS is another option for international students to demonstrate English
proficiency.

Minimum score required:

  * Overall minimum score of 7.
  * Minimum section scores of 6.5 in reading, listening, speaking, and 5.5 in writing.

**Exam results more than two years old cannot be considered.**  **Exam may be
taken multiple times, with only the highest score being considered.**

### Deadlines

##### Application Deadlines

**Atlanta Campus**

  * Fall: Dec. 16 (All Ph.D. and M.S. programs except M.S. Robo-ECE)
  * Fall: Feb. 1 (M.S. Robo-ECE)

**Europe Campus**

  * Fall: March 1 (M.S) (May 1 (PhD)
  * Spring: October 1 (M.S. only)

**Distance Learning Campus**

  * Fall: May 1 (M.S. only)
  * Spring: September 1 (M.S. only)

## Process

### GENERAL GEORGIA TECH APPLICATION INFORMATION

This consists of a range of general questions, including:

  * General background/contact information
  * Academic history
  * Employment history (if applicable)
  * Test scores (if applicable)
  * Resume/curriculum vitae (optional)
  * Statement of purpose (1,000 words maximum)

### ECE SPECIFIC APPLICATION INFORMATION

You will be asked to select a program as part of the general application.
After selecting “Electrical & Computer Engineering” an additional set of
questions will appear under “ECE Supplemental." The key pieces of information
that you must provide include:

  * **Research concentration areas.   **Applicants to ECE are required on the online application to identify two research concentration areas which best describe the fields in which they expect their graduate studies to be concentrated. These areas are based on the ECE Technical Interest Areas. Please review the complete descriptions of each area at the above link. **The research concentration areas play a key role in who will review your application. This impacts the admissions process as well as financial aid decisions. Note, however, that this selection does not bind you to work or take courses in any specific areas.**
  * **Ph.D. Applicants Only: “Buzzword” Selection.  **Applicants are also asked to select their interest level in a variety of additional research topics that typically span multiple research areas. This information is used to help faculty more easily find students who are interested in their area of research.
  * **Ph.D. Applicants Only: “Research Style” Selection.**  Applicants are also asked to select their interest level in different styles of research. This is again used to help faculty to find students whose interests align with their research.

### LETTERS OF RECOMMENDATION

Three letters of recommendation are required, and we suggest that at least two
of your recommendations come from faculty who are familiar with your academic
performance. Supervisors from experience in industry are also appropriate.
Applicants are responsible for providing contact information for the
recommenders, who will then be asked to submit their recommendation online.
Note that while we prefer letters to arrive by the application deadline,
letters that arrive after the deadline will still be considered as long as a
final decision has not yet been made.  

More About Submitting Recommendation Letters

## Status

### Status

After completing your online application, you can check on its status. Because
some of the documents must be processed and certified by more than one office,
please be patient. During the peak application period, (December and January),
it may take several weeks for some confirmations to appear.

**Please note:**  We do not accept updates to application materials (updated
transcripts, resumes, publications, etc.) To inquire about or report any
discrepancy in your application documentation, please contact ECE’s Graduate
Affairs Office at ECE Graduate Affairs Office Contact Form for Application
Questions and Prospective Students.

## Admissions

### Should I apply to the Ph.D. program or to the Master’s program?

If your goal is ultimately to get a Ph.D. from Georgia Tech, you should apply
to the Ph.D. program. You do not need to already have a Master’s degree to
apply to or be admitted to the Ph.D. program.

Note that our admission standards for students applying to the Ph.D. program
are higher than for those who are applying to the Master’s program. In
particular, for Ph.D. applicants there is a greater emphasis on a broader set
of criteria, such as your personal statement, letters of recommendation, and
prior research/work experience. Does this mean that you should not apply for
the Ph.D. program even if you are ultimately interested in a Ph.D.? We do not
recommend this. Financial assistance (in the form of fellowships, teaching
assistantships, or research assistantships with ECE faculty) are generally
offered only to students applying to the Ph.D. program.

**Note, however, that if you are denied admission to the Ph.D. program you
will not be automatically considered for the Master’s program.**

### Are the application deadline dates firm?

Yes.

### Can someone in ECE tell me if I am likely to be admitted?

We do not “pre-evaluate” applicants’ qualifications for graduate school in
ECE. Requesting evaluations from faculty/staff via email is highly
discouraged.

### Do you require all letters of recommendation to be submitted online?

Yes. Given the large number of applications that we receive, the online
letters are much easier to track and to disseminate to the faculty who make
the admissions and financial aid decisions.

### Submitting GRE scores is “optional." What does this mean?

We do not require applicants to submit GRE scores. They are not expected, but
if you have taken the GREs and would like to include them, they will be
considered. Strong GRE scores can potentially help make up for weakness in
another area of your application, but GRE scores are not a primary factor in
admissions decisions.

### I need help funding my education, how can I obtain a graduate teaching
assistantship (GTA) or graduate research assistantship (GRA)?

Admitted M.S. students can apply for GTA funding after enrollment in the first
semester. Students can fill out the position request form at the secured ECE
site. Those seeking GRAs are encouraged to reach out directly to faculty with
a shared research interest to discuss GRA opportunities. GTA/GRA funding is
very limited and is not guaranteed. M.S. students should have an alternative
plan for funding their degree.

Most applicants admitted to the Atlanta campus Ph.D. program will receive a
GTA or GRA offer. This will be noted in your acceptance letter. In the event
funding is not offered, students will need to have an alternate plan for
funding their degree. The Office of Graduate Studies fellowships page
maintains links to external national fellowships that may be of interest.

### How can I check the status of my application or check if my application
materials (transcripts, test scores, etc.) have been received by Georgia Tech?

Applications, transcripts, test scores, and other application materials sent
to Georgia Tech are received and processed by the Georgia Tech Office of
Graduate Studies. To check your application status and/or what materials have
been received by Georgia Tech, go to the application status checking page. On
this page you can view the most current information regarding the status of
your application including received materials.

### My supporting documents such as my transcript (or GRE or TOEFL scores)
have been sent to Georgia Tech, but my application status is still showing
incomplete due to missing documents. Should I resend missing documents?

No. The application status checking page shows what has been received and
processed. Transcripts must be scanned in order to be added to the database,
and some of the data from other documents must be entered manually into the
database. This takes time, especially near the application deadlines, since
Georgia Tech receives thousands of applications each year, many of them
arriving right before the application deadlines. Documents arriving during
school holidays and school breaks will not be posted during that time (see a
list of upcoming school holidays and breaks). A minimum of 10 working days is
typically required to process received documents. Be sure you have allowed
sufficient time for the materials to be sent and processed. If any of the
materials you sent or arranged to be sent to Georgia Tech are not acknowledged
as received, you should contact the Office of Graduate Studies. Do not contact
ECE inquiring about the status of these materials as they are received and
processed by the Office of Graduate Studies.

### How can I check if my letters of recommendation have been received by
Georgia Tech?

Your recommenders submit your letters of recommendation directly to the
Georgia Tech Office of Graduate Studies. To check the status of these letters,
go to the application status checking page. On this page you can view the most
current information regarding the status of your application including
received materials. Do not contact ECE regarding the status or your letters of
recommendation, as they are received and processed by the Office of Graduate
Studies.

### When and how will I be informed if I have been admitted?

For Atlanta campus M.S. and Ph.D. admissions: We will send out decisions as
they are made, starting as early as January, with the vast majority completed
by late March (for applications for fall admission).

For B.S./M.S. admissions: Admission decisions will be made by the end of the
preceding summer semester if not sooner and will be accessible through your
Gradapp account. Spring admissions decisions will be relayed by the end of the
preceding fall semester and will be accessible through your Gradapp account.
Decision available notification is sent to the email address as listed on the
application. You are responsible to ensure that this email address remains
accessible to receive communications from our office.

As admission decisions are made, some admission decision letters will be
available for direct download in Adobe pdf format. If your decision letter is
available for download, you will be informed via email and there will be a
link provided on the ECE Application Decision Status site to download your
letter. If you do not receive an email that your admission decision letter can
be downloaded and no link for downloading a letter appears on the ECE
Application Decision Status website, your letter will be emailed to you using
the email address on the application.

### I was not accepted into Georgia Tech, yet someone that I know whose
qualifications seem worse than mine was accepted. Why is that?

First of all, students do not know all of the details on their own application
(specifically, their letters of recommendation) and certainly not the details
of another person’s application. When students have contacted us in the past
with this question, we find that they are usually mistaken about other
student’s records. Even so, we understand that we do deny admission to many
excellent students due to program capacity limitations, and this is not a
reflection on their qualifications. If a group of students all have equivalent
grades and test scores, then other factors will influence the decision, such
as: letters of recommendation, the statement of purpose and prior experience,
and the alignment between the student’s area of interest and our needs within
ECE.

For example, a student may have research or work experience that exactly
matches the need of a particular faculty member who has an open research
assistantship position. That student may be admitted with lower a GPA and/or
test scores than someone else since the experience is weighted more heavily in
that case. Alternatively, a particular research concentration area may have a
large number of applicants compared to other areas, and we may need to balance
the number of students across these areas to align with the needs of our
faculty.

**Can't seem to find the answer to your question?**

**Contact Us  **

