#  Graduate Study Abroad

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

Image

Many international programs are available to ECE graduate students in order to
broaden their personal, professional, and intellectual horizons. Students with
international experience and an advanced degree possess business knowledge and
often second language skills that are very attractive to prospective employers
in both industry and academia. In addition, these students possess cross-
cultural communication skills and the ability to adapt to new circumstances
and deal constructively with differences.

ECE graduate students may participate in the following international programs:

### GEORGIA TECH-EUROPE

Georgia Tech-Europe (GT-Europe) is the European campus of the Georgia
Institute of Technology, located in the city of Metz in the Lorraine Region of
France. GTL offers graduate degree programs leading to the designated master’s
degrees (M.S.E.C.E. and M.S.M.E.), the undesignated master's degree (M.S.),
and the Ph.D. degree from Georgia Tech.  All lectures are delivered in English
by Georgia Tech professors assigned to GTL either on a permanent or part-time
basis. For more information, view the ECE graduate programs at GTL web page or
contact Professor Bertrand Boussert.

### GEORGIA TECH-EUROPE DOUBLE DEGREE PROGRAM

As a complement to regular graduate programs, GTL offers double degree
programs in cooperation with seven French Grandes Écoles d'Ingénieurs, or
graduate engineering institutions. For students enrolled in French
universities, these programs lead to the M.S.E.C.E., M.S.M.E., or M.S.
Undesignated from Georgia Tech and the Diplôme d'Ingénieur. For students from
Georgia Tech, they lead to the M.S. degree, plus a Master Professionale from
one of seven partner schools.

These programs typically involve three semesters of coursework and a required
internship in industry. Students spend at least one semester at GTL, one
semester at a partner institution, an additional semester at either Georgia
Tech-Lorraine or at Georgia Tech in Atlanta, and three to six months doing an
internship.

Among the master's programs proposed at our partner schools, some are taught
in English, but students may decide to do one in French. Information for
master's degrees taught in English can be found at the two partner
institutions listed below.

  * ENSEEIHT
  * ​Telecom SudParis

French language courses are offered at Georgia Tech-Lorraine for non-French
speakers. For more information, visit the GTL Double Degree Program website or
contact Professor Bertrand Boussert.

### MASTER’S DEGREE PROGRAM IN SHENZHEN

Qualified students from China, the United States, and any other countries can
pursue the master’s degree in ECE from Georgia Tech in Shenzhen, China.
Selected Georgia Tech graduate courses are taught by Georgia Tech faculty on
rotational assignment to Shenzhen during the spring, summer, and fall
semesters of each year. Currently enrolled Georgia Tech students can apply to
switch campuses to Shenzhen during any semester for a study abroad experience.
Georgia Tech-Shenzhen is located in the Nanshan District of Shenzhen with easy
access to hundreds of companies. Assistance is available for students to
pursue co-op or internship opportunities with multinational companies in
China, following a semester of study at Georgia Tech-Shenzhen. For more
information, visit the Georgia Tech-Shenzhen website or contact the GT-
Shenzhen Office. Watch a video introduction to the Shenzhen master's degree
program.

### STUDY ABROAD

The Office of International Education (OIE) is staffed with professionals that
provide guidance about other international study abroad opportunities offered
at Georgia Tech. If you choose a program that offers electrical engineering or
computer engineering courses, the School of ECE will work with you to
determine how the credits will apply to your degree.

Students may pursue semester-long or year-long international programs through
OIE’s Study Abroad Program. For more information, view the list of Georgia
Tech Semester Programs on the OIE website.

Options for international summer programs may also be found on the OIE Study
Abroad Program web site. For more information, visit the list of Georgia Tech
Summer Programs.

### GLOBAL INTERNSHIP PROGRAM

The Global Internship Program is a resource for internship opportunities at
companies around the world. These international work experiences are designed
for the ultimate experience to include practical training, cross-cultural
exposure and learning, and acquisition of the softer skills that are important
both professionally and personally in another culture. For more information,
visit the Global Internship Program website.

Changed

Thursday, 23 March 2023 12:51 AM EDT

