#  Institute for Matter & Systems Opening Showcase

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

October

15

2024

1:00 PM

Contact

Rebecca Grieco

Location

Marcus Nanotechnology Building

#### Related links

Register now

#### Event categories

Other/Miscellaneous

Seminar/Lecture/Colloquium

Tuesday, October 15, 2024 01:00PM

Join us for the Institute for Matter & Systems opening showcase event!

Our kickoff will feature tours of our facilities, representatives from our
research centers, swag & much more.



Agenda

**1:00** Opening remarks

**1:15** Oliver Brand Memorial Lecture

**2:30** Reception begins

**3:00** First tour of IMS facilities begins

**4:00** Second tour of IMS facilities begins



The opening showcase will also feature our Oliver Brand Memorial Lecture
speaker Michael Strano.

Professor Michael S. Strano is currently the Carbon P. Dubbs Professor in the
Chemical Engineering Department at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He received is B.S from Polytechnic University in Brooklyn, NY and Ph.D. from
the University of Delaware both in Chemical Engineering. He was a post
doctoral research fellow at Rice University in the departments of Chemistry
and Physics under the guidance of Nobel Laureate Richard E. Smalley.  From
2003 to 2007, Michael was an Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemical
and Biomolecular Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
before moving to MIT. His research focuses on biomolecule/nanoparticle
interactions and the surface chemistry of low dimensional systems, nano-
electronics, nanoparticle separations, and applications of vibrational
spectroscopy to nanotechnology. Michael is the recipient of numerous awards
for his work, including a 2005 Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists
and Engineers, a 2006 Beckman Young Investigator Award, the 2006 Coblentz
Award for Molecular Spectroscopy, the Unilever Award from the American
Chemical Society in 2007 for excellence in colloidal science, and the 2008
Young Investigator Award from the Materials Research Society and the 2008
Allen P. Colburn Award from the American Institute of Chemical Engineers. From
2014 to 2015 he served as member of the Defense Science Study Group, and is
currently an editor for the journals Carbon and Protocols in Chemical Biology.
Michael was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 2017.

Event is open to all, advanced registration for tours required.

