#  International Students

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

The international student population in the School of Electrical and Computer
Engineering makes up about one-third of the total student body. We welcome
students from more than 45 different countries into our global community.
Information specific to the School can be found further down the page. For
general information on admissions, visas, and other Institute-wide resources,
please visit the links below:

International Admissions Website

Information for international undergraduate students on applications, language
requirements, tuition, etc.

Office of International Education

Information on visas, immigration documents, employment status, etc.

International Activities at GT

A listing of events, activities, and organizations with an international theme
or focus.

#### Admission Requirements

Admission to Georgia Techâ€™s School of Electrical and Computer Engineering is
very competitive. We seek students with outstanding undergraduate records and
excellent test scores. In general, applicants should be in the top 5 percent
of their class in a recognized school of electrical and computer engineering.
This can be measured by class rank, as well as by a relative reporting of your
grade point average (e.g. 3.6/4.0 or 18/20).

If an applicant's degree is not from a U.S. school, or if English is not the
native language, the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) will be
required. Generally, a score of 550 (213 for computer-based tests) is
required.

#### Financial Support

Financial assistance may be available for students with an outstanding
academic record. However, this is not guaranteed. Students who are not offered
financial assistance at the time of admission must have sufficient funds to
support themselves (and their accompanying families) through completion of the
program for which they have applied.

#### Scientific Writing for International Students

A Scientific Writing for International Students class is offered to our
international Ph.D. students twice a semester during the spring and the fall
terms. In this class, students first learn the cultural aspects of writing
because many writing problems stem from poor understanding of how writing is
used in our culture. Students next learn the principles of organizing ideas
clearly, completely, and cohesively. In addition, students analyze common non-
native writing errors such as articles and countability, and they examine
errors common in all advanced writing (native and non-native), including:
punctuation and mechanics, conjunctions, adverb placement, adjective clauses,
phrasal modifiers, and parallel structures. They then use their awareness of
specific writing and grammar errors to practice proofreading and editing their
own documents independently and during one-on-one meetings with the
instructor. The course is offered to ECE and ME Ph.D. students and is
advertised each term by the ECE Graduate Office.

