#  Nano@Tech Spring 2024 Series | Plenty of Room at the Top and Bottom 

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

February

13

2024

12:00 PM

Contact

David Gottfried

Location

Marcus Nanotechnology Building | Rooms 1116-1118

#### Event categories

Seminar/Lecture/Colloquium

#### Keywords

go-ien

go-imat

go-researchnews

Tuesday, February 13, 2024 12:00PM

**Abstract:** Advances in the theory of semiconductors in the 1930s coupled
with the purification of germanium and silicon crystals in the 1940s enabled
the point-contact junction transistor demonstration in 1947 and initiated the
era of semiconductor electronics. Gordon Moore postulated that the number of
components in an integrated circuit would double every two years with
associated reduction in cost per transistor. Transistor density doubling
through “scaling” with each new process node continues today, albeit at a
slower pace. Scaling resulted in exponential gain in performance and energy
efficiency of integrated circuits that has transformed computing from main-
frames to personal computers, from mobile computing to cloud computing, from
general purpose computing to domain specific computing. Innovations in new
materials, transistor structures, cryogenic operation and design-technology
co-optimization will continue transistor density scaling. Monolithic 3D
integration and polylithic chiplet assembly will result in tight co-
integration of memory on top of logic, whereas backside power delivery and
power conversion technologies will exploit silicon asset beneath the logic
transistor later. Together, these technologies will lead to continued advances
in performance, energy efficiency and density of transistors in future
microsystems.

**Bio:  **Suman Datta, Joseph M Pettit Chair Professor at Georgia Tech and a
GRA Eminent Scholar, was previously Stinson Chair Professor of Electrical
Engineering at the University of Notre Dame and Professor of Electrical
Engineering at The Pennsylvania State University. From 1999 to 2007, he led
device R&D at Intel Corporation, contributing to several generations of high-
performance logic transistors. His research group focuses on electronic
devices for novel compute models. A Fellow of the IEEE and NAI, Datta has
published 445+ papers and holds 186 semiconductor related US patents.

**View a live stream of the seminar**

##### A boxed lunch will be served on a first come, first served basis.

