#  Nano@Tech Spring 2024 Series | Enabling Roll-to-Roll Manufacture of Thin Films through Conventional and Innovative Coating Processes 

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

January

23

2024

12:00 PM

Contact

David Gottfried

Location

Marcus Nanotechnology Building | Rooms 1116-1118

#### Event categories

Seminar/Lecture/Colloquium

#### Keywords

go-ien

go-researchevents

go-imat

Tuesday, January 23, 2024 12:00PM

**Abstract:** In recent decades, printing and coating techniques have received
interest for manufacturing of low-cost flexible electronics, membranes,
electrochemical systems, packaging/encapsulation, and pharmaceuticals. The
functionality of these devices and materials depends significantly on the
print resolution, with typical feature sizes ranging from millimeters to
microns and material properties with respect to scaled manufacture. Although
feature sizes across this range are technically feasible with established
techniques, process scalability and wide-area patterning have presented
persistent challenges. In this talk, we will explore the scalability of
various material forms and patterns using roll-to-roll manufacturing with
conventional and innovative tooling to enable control over pattern structure
and properties. To address these limitations, investigations of fluid
phenomena responsible for coating quality will be interrogated as it relates
to manufacturing, using experimental and analytical approaches. An
understanding of processing limits in terms of film quality, pattern
resolution and feature size will be discussed when processing a single liquid
or multiple liquids simultaneously across a variety of manufacturing tools
that can translate to scaled manufacturing.

**Bio:**  Tequila A. L. Harris is a Professor in the George W. Woodruff School
of Mechanical Engineering, at Georgia Institute of Technology and Principal
Investigator of the Highly Advanced Roll-to-Roll iManufacturIng Systems
(HARRiS) group. Harrisâ€™ research is focused on exploring the connectivity
between thin film quality and its functionality, durability and performance,
based on its manufacture. Her aim is to elucidate mechanisms that cause system
failure, which may have initiated at the manufacturing stage. With the use of
numerical simulations and experimentation, she has introduced unique models
and approaches to predict and control the quality of thin films, processed on
permeable and impermeable substrates. By addressing the associated complex
fundamental problems, she aims to impact a plethora of industries and fields
such as energy, electronics and environmental. Harris has received several
awards and honors, of note, the L. E. Scriven Young Investigator Award and the
National Science Foundation CAREER Award.

**View a live stream of the seminar**

##### A boxed lunch will be served on a first come, first served basis.

