#  Program Overview

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

The School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Georgia Tech offers some
of the world’s most comprehensive educational and research programs for
undergraduate and graduate students. Our electrical and computer engineering
academics are led by faculty at the top of their fields. You will gain hands-
on experience in our research centers and labs, and learn to succeed in a
global high-tech marketplace through our international programs.

**Increase efficiency. Enable faster communications. Provide cleaner energy
sources. Help people with disabilities lead fuller lives.  **These are the
types of things that we do. Not only is it challenging and worthwhile work,
graduates of ECE at Georgia Tech are among the highest paid of all engineering
disciplines. Industry recruiters and top graduate, business, medical, and law
schools also hotly pursue them. A Georgia Tech ECE degree is recognized and
respected around the world.

**FACULTY**

**RESEARCH**

**CONTACT US**

**STUDENT RESOURCES**

Blank Space (small)  
(text and background only visible when logged in)

# Undergraduate Studies

ECE undergraduate academic programs at Georgia Tech enrich, expand, educate,
support, prepare and foster the growth of tomorrow's thinkers and doers. As
part of one of our top-ranked academic programs, you’ll gain a solid and
invaluable foundation in the fundamentals of engineering and science.

Every Georgia Tech undergrad starts smart—well studied, tested, and proven.
But by the time you graduate, you've gone beyond problem solving—unlocking the
magic of ECE so you can dream it, design it, and get it done. And you're ready
to apply your knowledge as soon as you walk out the door. We think that's
pretty smart, too.

Learn More About ECE Undergraduate Studies

### ECE UNDERGRADUATE DEGREES

Our innovative curriculum and practical experience gained from the yearlong
senior design project give undergraduate students the opportunity to develop
life-changing technologies across myriad disciplines. ECE undergraduate
academic programs include:

  * Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering
  * Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering
  * Joint B.S./M.S. Degree Program

A variety of electives allow you to tailor your studies to a specific
technical interest and carve your own pathway to greatness.

**Degree Requirements**

### ADDITIONAL ACADEMIC OPPORTUNITIES

Both electrical engineering and computer engineering majors may participate in
the International Plan, Cooperative Education Program or the Research Option,
three unique academic initiatives at Georgia Tech. Students who successfully
complete these programs receive special degree designations on their diplomas.
What’s more, there are over 80 different programs to study abroad, including
one in France that offers core ECE classes taught by Georgia Tech faculty.

**Study Abroad Programs**

### RESEARCH ENRICHMENT

The School of ECE’s large research program offers undergraduates various ways
to get involved. Choose from short- or long-term individual or group projects,
and earn hands-on experience early on in your studies.

**ECE Research Opportunities**

### CAREER OUTLOOK

Hybrid vehicles, smart houses, clean energy, biomedical innovation—name the
industry and you can be there. Our curious, future-minded engineers are at the
center of every technology, which is why agile solutions and flexible skill
sets are always in high demand. With a degree from Georgia Tech ECE in hand,
there's no limit to what you can do. Starting salaries for graduates with
bachelor of science degrees average over $65,000/year.

View Employment and Career Services

# Graduate Studies

For those who have always had a passion for problem solving and a deep desire
to harness the power of technology, the School of Electrical and Computer
Engineering at Georgia Tech is the place to do it. The breadth and depth of
our quality graduate program build upon a firm ground of the basics and
advance your cutting-edge technical knowledge. On any given day, our school of
bright minds is hard at work on hundreds of projects, issues, experiments, and
opportunities—real work that has real impact in the real world.

**Fast Facts:**

  * We have the largest ECE graduate academic program in the United States.
  * With over 110 faculty members, ECE covers a broad range of research topics and offers over 100 graduate-level ECE courses.
  * ECE is home to 11 areas of specialization, 19 research centers, and numerous laboratories.
  * Since 2010, ECE has averaged $51 to $58 million per year in corporate, governmental and research foundation support.
  * Our graduates are among the most sought-after in the world, employed with the world's top high-tech companies and research universities and in governmental agencies and small businesses.  
  


**ECE Graduate Academic Programs**

ECE graduate degree options at Georgia Tech include the M.S.E.C.E. non-thesis
option, the M.S.E.C.E. thesis option, and the Ph.D. Students interested in
interdisciplinary degrees may work towards an M.S. in Cybersecurity or
Bioengineering. Georgia Tech also offers a Ph.D. in Robotics, Machine
Learning, or Bioengineering.

Thesis degrees may be pursued at the main Georgia Tech campus in Atlanta,
Georgia; Georgia Tech Shenzhen in China; and Georgia Tech-Europe in France.
Additionally, the M.S. degree can be obtained anywhere in the world through
our distance learning degree program.

Learn More About ECE Graduate Studies

Master of Science Degree Requirements

Ph.D. Degree Requirements

Distance Learning M.S. Degree

Master of Science in Cybersecurity

Online Master of Science in Cybersecurity

Master of Science and Ph.D. in Bioengineering

Ph.D. in Robotics

Ph.D. in Machine Learning

Georgia Tech Europe Double Degree Program

Master’s Degree Program in Shenzhen, China

