#  Senior Design & Capstone Design Expo

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

### From Smart Farming to Delivery Drones, Fall Capstone Design Expo
Highlights Student Innovation

Electrical and computer engineering students addressed real world problems
with their novel project designs during this semester’s Fall Capstone Design
Expo. “Big Hero 6” team tied for Best Overall Project and “FRMBX” won Best ECE
Team.

Read More

Image

Senior undergraduate students in ECE work on design challenges that have real-
world applications in the two-semester Senior Design course sequence. The
student design teams’ efforts are showcased at an end-of-semester Capstone
Design Expo. The Expo takes place at the end of each fall and spring semester
and features inventions by more than 150 teams and 900 individual students.
All eight schools within the College of Engineering compete, with ECE students
making up close to a quarter of total participants.

ECE Senior Design is a two-semester course sequence that satisfies the major
design requirement for EE and CmpE majors and provides senior ECE students
with the necessary skills to address and solve open-ended design problems.

Working in teams, students will complete a two-semester-long project requiring
specification, design, implementation, and testing. Projects must be based on
the knowledge and skills acquired in earlier course work, and incorporate
appropriate engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints. For
teams including CmpE majors, the project must incorporate both hardware and
software design elements and trade-offs.

#### Senior Design

Many of the projects are multi-disciplinary efforts bringing together unique
combinations of students with complimentary technical skills from different
engineering disciplines. These technically rich joint projects offer students
the opportunity to gain cross training in other disciplines ranging from
biomedical, mechanical, industrial, and chemical engineering to industrial
design and beyond.  Emphasis is placed on the design process, the technical
aspects of the design, and on reducing the proposed design to practice.

#### Capstone Design Expo

The Capstone Design Expo is a showcase of Georgia Tech’s graduating seniors
and has become one of the largest student design expos in the United States.
It is an opportunity for student teams to present their innovative ideas
designed and built during the Senior Design course sequence to solve real-
world problems.

The Expo is a showcase of Georgia Tech’s graduating seniors as they present
their innovations designed and built during the Senior Design course sequence.
Student teams work to solve an industry sponsored challenge or develop
innovative tools to assist researchers for conducting cutting edge research or
work on their own dream project leading to creating a start-up company. At the
Expo, the teams display and pitch their projects and inventions to a panel of
judges, invited guest, media, student peers, and the general public, while
competing for cash prizes.

**ECE Senior Design & Capstone Expo: Where the Rubber Meets the Road**

Past Expos have witnessed projects that yielded significant results for our
industry sponsors, saving significant dollars in research and development
costs. The networking experience for students gives them the opportunity to
make a lasting first impression on potential employers, while others have even
walked away with an invitation to come and visit a potential employment
opportunity with project sponsors and Expo attendees.



### **Giving Opportunities**

* * *

#### Senior Design Projects

##### For permanent endowment:

  * Named Senior Design Team...................................._from_  **$125,000**
  * Named Undergraduate Student Scholarship........_from_  **$25,000**
  * General Program Support.........................................._from_  **$25,000**

##### For current operations:

  * Senior Design Team, corporate sponsorship........._from_  **$8,000**

##### Sponsor Benefits:

  * Company logo displayed on website
  * Student recruiting and mentoring opportunities
  * Potential solution to your challenge—designed, built, and tested over 2 semesters



#### Capstone Design Expo

##### For permanent endowment:

  * General Program Support..........................................._from_  **$25,000**

##### For current operations:

  * General Program Support, corporate sponsorship....._from_  **$8,000**

##### Sponsor Benefits:

  * Company logo displayed at McCamish Pavilion for Expo
  * Company logo displayed on Georgia Tech Capstone Design Expo website
  * Student recruiting opportunities
  * Participation as official judge at Expo

To get involved with ECE Senior Design, please contact Professor Bruno Frazier
at 404.894.2030 or Bruno.Frazier@ece.gatech.edu.

Monday, 29 January 2024 1:31 PM EST

