#  Undergraduate Admissions

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home

### ECE Undergraduate Admissions

Are you a big brain and creative thinker, ready to dig your heels into a
first-class computer or electrical engineering degree? If so, here’s what you
need to know about applying to ECE at Georgia Tech.

Thanks for your interest in joining our talented student body at Georgia Tech
ECE!

Apply Now

Image



ECE undergraduate academic programs at Georgia Tech enrich, expand, educate,
support, prepare and foster the growth of tomorrow's thinkers and doers. As
part of one of our top-ranked academic programs, you’ll gain a solid and
invaluable foundation in the fundamentals of engineering and science.

Every Georgia Tech undergrad starts smart—well studied, tested, and proven.
But by the time you graduate, you've gone beyond problem solving—unlocking the
magic of ECE so you can dream it, design it, and get it done. And you're ready
to apply your knowledge as soon as you walk out the door. We think that's
pretty smart, too.

## What Our Programs Offer

Georgia Tech's School of Electrical and Computer Engineering offers two
undergraduate degree options: the Bachelor of Science in Electrical
Engineering** ** and the** **Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering**.**

With the large number of electives in our degree requirements, students can
customize their programs to pursue international experiences, professional
experiences, research, and minors such as Energy or Robotics.

Learn more about additional degree designations including the International
Program, Cooperative Education Program, and the Research Option. Students can
also pursue minors in a wide variety of areas. Learn more about specific minor
options.

## GT ECE: An Overview

## ECE Senior Design

## Applications & Admissions

**The following useful information will help your decision-making and
application process with Georgia Tech ECE.**

**Admissions for ECE Undergraduate Students**  
  
Find admission requirements, application instructions, deadlines, and other
beneficial resources.

**Why ECE at Georgia Tech**  
  
Discover answers to frequently asked questions about the School of Electrical
and Computer Engineering (ECE) at Georgia Tech, the largest of its kind in the
country.

**Undergraduate Academic Programs**  
  
Check out an overview of our bachelor of science degree programs, research and
study abroad opportunities, and what the future holds for ECE graduates.

**Plan Your Visit**  
  
Come see all that our campus and Atlanta has to offer. Organize your stay:

  * Tour ECE and Attend a Class
  * Attend Georgia Tech Information Sessions and Tours (Admitted Students and Prospective Students)
  * Directions and Campus Maps
  * Where to Stay When You Visit Campus

## Quick Links

**Undergraduate Admissions**  
  
All ECE undergraduate admissions are handled centrally by the Georgia Tech
Office of Undergraduate Admission, so head there to learn more about applying
to our undergraduate programs. Apply now.

**Transfer Students**  
  
Transferring from another program? Check out the three programs you’re
eligible to transfer into at ECE. Learn more about transferring to Tech.

**Graduate Admissions**  
  
If you are interested in graduate school, please visit the graduate admissions
section of the site.

**Planning Your Visit**  
  
We look forward to your arrival! We’ve put together helpful information,
including directions, campus map, ECE facilities, and help with accommodations
for prospective new students and their families. Plan your visit.

**Transfer Programs** This page provides descriptions of three programs
through which students can transfer to ECE.

**Office of Student Financial Planning and Services:** This Georgia Tech
office is responsible for financial aid and scholarships.

Image

